Go to www.hse.ie/covid19vaccine for more information on the COVID-19 vaccine.
The vaccine against COVID-19
Important information about the AstraZeneca vaccine against COVID-19, Vaxzevria
Version 9
June 15, 2021
Regarding this information booklet
In this booklet, you are provided with information about the COVID-19 (coronavirus) vaccine.
You are told:
What is COVID-19?
What is the COVID-19 vaccine?
who are the people who should get the vaccine
Why is it important to get the vaccine
Who are the people that shouldn't get it and who are the people that should get the vaccine reversed
vaccine safety and side effects
the places where more information can be obtained
Read this information booklet carefully.
You can also speak to healthcare professionals about the vaccine - such as your Family Doctor or Pharmacist, for example.
What is COVID-19?
COVID-19 is an illness that could affect your lungs and airways, as well as other parts of your body in certain cases.
Coronavirus is the name of the virus that causes it.
COVID-19 is very contagious.
It is through the air that it spreads by the droplets expelled when people cough or sneeze, or when someone touches surfaces with those droplets on them and then touches the same hand to their eyes, nose, or mouth.
COVID-19 can cause severe respiratory illness in a person, leading to hospitalization or even death.
Among the common symptoms of COVID-19 are:
A new cough - any type of cough, it doesn't have to be dry.
shortness of breath or breathing difficulties
loss of smell or taste - this means that you have noticed that you cannot smell or taste anything, or that it has a different smell or taste
Perhaps you wouldn't have all of those symptoms or maybe it's just that you would be paying more attention than usual.
Sometimes it can take up to 14 days before symptoms appear.
They can resemble symptoms of a cold or flu.
If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, isolate yourself (stay in your room) and call your Family Doctor.
He or she will be able to arrange a COVID-19 test for you.
Who are the people most at risk of COVID-19?
Breakfast eaters and individuals with certain pre-existing health conditions are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19 than the general population.
What is the COVID-19 vaccine?
A vaccine is a substance designed to improve immunity (protection) against a specific disease.
The COVID-19 vaccine will provide protection against COVID-19.
If vaccination is carried out on people, the number of people in our community who would become seriously ill or die from COVID-19 should be reduced.
Vaccines teach your immune system how to defend against disease.
It is much safer for your immune system to learn that amount through vaccination than to contract COVID-19.
Who are the people who should get the vaccine?
You can access a list of the groups scheduled for vaccination on this website: www.gov.ie/covid19vaccine
Although it is up to you to decide whether to get the vaccine or not, the WHO, the World Health Organization, and the Department of Health strongly recommend that you get it as soon as it is offered to you.
Vaccines will be given to people as supplies arrive in Ireland.
When the time comes, we will let you know how to get the vaccine either through advertising or by inviting you directly.
It is important that you do not contact the HSE regarding vaccination before then.
You will need to read this leaflet and the Patient Information Leaflet before you receive the vaccine.
You can access the Patient Information Leaflet for the COVID-19 Vaccine at: www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinePIL
You can speak to healthcare professionals in advance as well.
If you decide to get the vaccine, you will need to give your consent and this consent will be recorded.
The vaccine is being provided for free by the HSE.
Why is it important to get the vaccine?
The vaccine should reduce the risk of contracting COVID-19 and help protect you against the serious complications associated with it.
By offering the vaccine to the public, our aim is to protect people and reduce the illness and deaths caused by the virus.
I have already had COVID-19, do I need to get the vaccine?
Okay.
Even if you've had COVID-19 before, you could still catch it again.
The vaccine will reduce the risk of contracting COVID-19 again.
Even if you were to contract COVID-19 again, it is expected that the symptoms would not be as severe as a result of the vaccine.
I have COVID-19 now, should I get the vaccine?
Incorrect.
You should reschedule your vaccination until you recover from COVID-19.
Wait.
At least four weeks after you first notice symptoms
Four weeks after receiving a positive result on a COVID-19 test
To get the vaccine
Who is my vaccinator?
The vaccinator is the person who will give you the vaccine.
The HSE provides training for him or her to administer COVID-19 vaccines.
Can you get the COVID-19 vaccine?
The COVID-19 vaccine cannot be given to you.
You may have had COVID-19 before receiving the vaccine and not noticed the symptoms until after you were vaccinated.
If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, it is very important to self-isolate (stay in your room) and arrange a free test to find out if you have COVID-19.
If you develop a fever that lasts more than two days after receiving the vaccine, or if it persists for more than two days, you should self-isolate and ask your Family Doctor to arrange a COVID-19 test for you.
If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after the first dose, you must still receive the second dose.
While it may provide some protection from the first dose, it is the second dose that will offer you the best protection against the virus.
Should I get the COVID-19 vaccine if I have a high temperature?
You should reschedule your vaccination if you have a fever (temperature of 38 degrees Celsius or higher), until you feel better.
Should I get the vaccine if I am pregnant or breastfeeding?
If you have received the first dose of the vaccine and you are breastfeeding, you should get your second dose.
Record the first dose of the vaccine you received and if you are pregnant, you should get your second dose by the 36th week of pregnancy if possible.
There is a significant risk of serious illness if you do not receive the second dose.
More information is available at www.hse.ie/covidvacpreg
What vaccine is being offered to me?
The vaccine being offered to you is called Vaxzevria.
AstraZeneca manufactures this particular vaccine.
A vaccine is a type of antivirus that contains a non-infectious version of another virus (the vector).
That will teach your body how to produce protein that will promote an appropriate immune response in you.
Then your body will start producing antibodies, which will help fight off the infection if COVID-19 enters your body out here.
Is the vaccine safe?
FSS only uses vaccines that meet the necessary standards in terms of safety and effectiveness.
Although the COVID-19 vaccines were developed more quickly than usual, the vaccine being offered to you has gone through all the necessary normal stages to ensure it is both safe and effective.
To authorize the use of the COVID-19 vaccine, it satisfied all clinical trials and safety checks required to meet all other authorized vaccine standards and satisfied international safety standards.
The vaccine being offered to you is called Vaxzevria and it is manufactured by AstraZeneca.
Regarding the vaccine:
It was tested on thousands of people as part of clinical trials.
She successfully achieved strict safety, quality, and efficiency standards, and has been approved and licensed by regulators.
In the case of Ireland, the European Medicines Agency is the regulator - go to www.ema.europa.eu to find out more information.
How is the vaccine against COVID-19 called?
The vaccine is given as an injection into the muscle of your arm.
It will only take a couple of minutes.
The second dose must be received between 8 weeks and 12 weeks after the first dose.
How many doses of the COVID-19 vaccine will I need?
You will need two doses of the vaccine to obtain long-lasting protection.
You will receive the second dose between 8 weeks and 12 weeks after the first dose.
What are the side effects of the vaccine?
Most of them are mild or moderate, short-term, and not everyone gets them.
The following consequences could affect more than one in ten people:
tuirse translates to "tiredness" in English.
Opposition, blue members, pain or swelling in the arm where the vaccine injection was given
headache
panic in the streets
hairpin
Halloween
fever (temperature 38 degrees Celsius or above)
Red blood cells or platelets with an abnormal shape, size, color, or low number in the blood (which may not cause symptoms) could be present in no more than one out of every 100 people.
Dehydration, dizziness, fatigue, nausea, and swollen lymph nodes or a fever could be present if more than one out of every 1,000 people.
Serious side effects, such as severe allergic reactions, are rare, i.e. in around one out of every 100,000 people.
Your vaccinator has been trained to administer appropriate medical care to patients who have been affected by such severe allergic reactions.
In rare cases, abnormal blood clots and low platelet levels could occur in the blood of one out of every 100,000 people.
One out of every five of those people could die.
There is no longer the same risk that these blood clots will occur after the second dose of the vaccine.
The danger of this very rare law is increasingly prevalent among young people.
In a very small number of cases, people have experienced the rare side effect syndrome after receiving this vaccine.
A heavy heart is rare, but it can sometimes be the cause of death.
Your family doctor, doctor, or vaccinator will be able to advise you on the risks and benefits associated with this vaccine.
The COVID-19 vaccine passed the same safety trials and precautions as all other approved vaccines, but it is a new vaccine itself and there is only limited information available about long-term side effects.
As more and more people in Ireland and around the world receive this vaccine, it is accepted that more information about the side effects will be available.
The HSE will regularly update the information on our website, and if necessary, will also update the information sheets provided to people when they receive their first or second dose of the vaccine.
I rarely watch violent movies.
While the risk of blood clots and low platelet levels in the blood is very low, you should be aware of the symptoms to watch out for.
Get immediate medical help if you experience any of these symptoms after receiving the Vaxzevria vaccine:
Hello! How can I help you today?
It is rare for blood clotting events and low platelet counts to be reported within 14 days after receiving the Vaxzevria vaccine.
Be sure to watch out for these symptoms in the weeks after getting vaccinated.
I rarely use the vibrating setting on my phone.
The shaken baby syndrome is caused by the shaking of a baby, resulting in small blood vessels bursting.
While the risk of this law being enforced is very low, you should be aware of the signs to watch out for.
to gain weight suddenly
You could feel weak due to low blood pressure.
It is common for reports of ribbed vein syndrome to occur within 4 days after receiving the Vaxzevria vaccine.
Be vigilant for these symptoms in the days following your vaccination.
Fever after the vaccine
Many people experience a fever after getting a vaccine.
It is common for that to happen within two days (48 hours) after receiving the vaccine, and it usually goes away within two days.
There is a high chance that you will experience a fever after your first dose of the vaccine.
If you feel uncomfortable, take paracetamol or ibuprofen according to the instructions on the box or on the information leaflet.
Get medical advice if you are worried.
Are there certain people who should not get the COVID-19 vaccine?
You should not get the COVID-19 vaccine:
If you are under 50 years of age. Therefore, because the risk of blood clots occurring or having a low platelet count in the blood after receiving the vaccine is very rare.
Another vaccine will be made available to you.
If you have had a severe allergic reaction before to any component of the vaccine (including polysorbate 80).
The list of ingredients can be found in the Patient Information Leaflet.
If you had a severe allergic reaction after the first dose of this vaccine.
If you had a fever and low platelet count in your blood after the first dose of this vaccine.
If you had restless leg syndrome before.
If you had a severe allergic reaction just after getting any vaccine or any other injectable therapy, you should speak to your doctor before getting the COVID-19 vaccine.
The majority of people will be able to get the vaccine safely.
The vaccinator will be fully satisfied to answer any questions you may have regarding your vaccination.
He or she will also give you a post-vaccination advice sheet, as well as a vaccination record card with the name and batch number of the vaccine you received.
Should I get the second dose of the vaccine if I am under 50 years old?
If you are under 50 years old and have already received the first dose of the vaccine, you should get your second dose between 8 weeks and 12 weeks later.
How long does it take for the vaccine to start working?
The vaccine will not start working until about 3 weeks after the first dose.
The best protection against COVID-19 will be after the second dose, which you should get between 8 weeks and 12 weeks after your first dose.
There is still a chance that you could contract COVID-19 even after getting the vaccine.
Does the vaccine work in everyone?
Vaccines save at least 2 to 3 million people from death every year worldwide, and they prevent many others from diseases that can last a lifetime.
Millions of people around the world have received COVID-19 vaccines.
There is strong, convincing evidence that the COVID-19 vaccines significantly reduce the risk of getting COVID-19.
They are effective ways to prevent severe illness and death caused by COVID-19.
You have a weakened immune system, there are no additional risks associated with the vaccine, but it may not work as well for you.
After I receive the vaccine, will I not be able to spread COVID-19 to other people?
We do not yet know if vaccinated people can spread the virus to others.
That is why it is so important that we continue to adhere to public health advice to stop the spread of the virus.
Above all else, you must still do the following things:
wash your hands regularly
How long will immunity from the vaccine last?
It's not known yet how long the pandemic will last.
Clinical trials are currently underway to answer that question.
More information
Read the Merchant's Information Sheet for more information about your customer.
You can also speak with healthcare professionals about the vaccine - your Family Doctor, Pharmacist or a member of your healthcare team, for example.
How can I report bugs?
The regulatory authority in the Republic of Ireland is responsible for cosmetics, medicinal products, and other health products.
As part of its role in monitoring the safety of vaccines, the Authority operates a system through which health care professionals or members of the public can report any adverse reactions (side effects) associated with vaccines that occur in Ireland.
The Authority strongly recommends that all adverse events (side effects) associated with COVID-19 vaccines be reported in order to support ongoing safe and effective monitoring of their usage.
You can also ask your Doctor or a family member to report that on your behalf.
As much information as possible should be provided, and the vaccine batch number should also be mentioned when possible.
The Authority cannot provide clinical advice on specific cases.
Members of the public should contact their healthcare providers (Doctor or Physiotherapist) if they have any medical concerns.
Your personal information
Administering the vaccine to people in a safe and secure manner and recording all necessary information for monitoring and managing the vaccine, FSS will process your personal information.
The DPC will process all information in accordance with the general laws and the General Data Protection Regulation in particular, which came into effect in 2018.
Processing of your personal data will be fair and transparent.
They will only be processed for the purpose of managing vaccination appointments.
The Principle of Data Minimization is in effect.
This means that only the data required to identify you, to make an appointment for you, to record your vaccination, and to monitor its effects will be recorded.
As an individual data subject, you have the following rights under the General Data Protection Regulation regarding the processing of your personal data.
Information about your personal data and how to request access to it (often referred to as a 'subject access request').
You are entitled to receive a copy of the personal data we hold about you and to ensure that they are being processed in accordance with our laws.
We would like to update the personal information we have about you.
You are entitled to request that any incomplete or inaccurate information we have about you be corrected.
Your personal data was requested for verification.
You are entitled to request us to delete or remove personal data if we have no good reason to continue processing it.
You have the right to request us to delete or remove your personal information if you have exercised your right to object to its processing.
Why against processing your personal data.
The vaccine against COVID-19
Important information about the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, Comirnaty
If you decide to get the vaccine, you will need to give your consent and this consent will be recorded.
Why is it important to get the COVID-19 vaccine?
Can the COVID-19 vaccine be given to you?
If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, it is very important to self-isolate (stay in your room) and arrange a free test to find out if you have COVID-19.
If you develop a fever that lasts more than two days after getting the vaccine, or if you have a longer-lasting fever, you should self-isolate and ask your Family Doctor to arrange a COVID-19 test for you.
If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after the first dose, you must still receive the second dose.
Is it safe to get the vaccine if you are pregnant or breastfeeding?
There is no evidence to suggest that the COVID-19 vaccine is unsafe for those who are pregnant.
In clinical trials, the COVID-19 vaccines were not tested on pregnant women.
Nonetheless, over 100,000 pregnant women have received the COVID-19 vaccine in the United States.
There is nothing more concerning than the safety of oneself and one's children.
If you are pregnant, you should speak to your Obstetrician or family doctor about getting the COVID-19 vaccine.
You can get the COVID-19 vaccine if you are breastfeeding.
The vaccine being offered to you is called Comirnaty and it is manufactured by Pfizer/BioNTech.
This mRNA vaccine will teach your body how to make a protein that will trigger an immune response in you, without using the live virus that causes COVID-19.
The second dose must be obtained 28 days after the first dose.
You will need two doses of the vaccine to get the best protection.
You will need to get the second dose 28 days (four full weeks) after the first dose.
Exemption or in the hand-held leaflet given to you at the vaccine installation
stream
A ghost, a vampire or a red-eyed creature could be present at the installation site in a ratio of no more than one in every 100 people.
An adverse reaction will occur in more than one person out of every 1,000 people at the site where the vaccine was administered, they may experience general discomfort or pain, their lymph nodes may swell or it may be difficult for them to fall asleep.
The Bell's palsy is a rare condition that is seen in more than one person out of every 10,000.
In rare cases, a face with facial fillers can be seen.
That is seen in more than one in every 10,000 people.
Serious side effects, such as severe allergic reactions, are rarely seen, i.e. in around one out of every 100,000 people.
The COVID-19 vaccine passed the same clinical trials and safety checks as all other approved vaccines, but it is a new vaccine and therefore there is only limited information available about long-term side effects.
It is common for that to happen within two days (48 hours) after receiving the vaccine, and it usually goes away within two days.
There is a high chance that you will get a fever after the second dose of the vaccine.
If you have had a severe allergic reaction before to any of the components of the vaccine (including polyethylene glycol),
If you experienced a severe allergic reaction after the first dose of the vaccine.
If you have had a severe allergic reaction to any vaccine, therapy containing polyethylene glycol (PEG) or polysorbate 80, you should speak to your doctor before getting the COVID-19 vaccine.
The majority of people will have immunity after receiving the two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine.
That means they will be protected against COVID-19.
There is still a chance that you could contract COVID-19 even after getting the vaccine.
If you have a compromised immune system, there are no additional risks associated with the vaccine, but it may not work as well for you.
The Authority strongly recommends that any adverse events (side effects) associated with COVID-19 vaccines be reported in order to support ongoing monitoring of their safe and effective use.
Important Information about the Moderna Vaccine against COVID-19
You can access a list of the groups currently eligible for vaccination on the website: www.gov.ie/covid19vaccine
Although it is up to you to decide whether to get the vaccine or not, WHO, the World Health Organization, and the Department of Health strongly recommend that you get it as soon as it is offered to you.
