 Visit www.hse.ie/covid19vaccine for more information on the COVID-19 vaccine. 
The COVID-19 Vaccine 
 Important information about your AstraZeneca vaccine against COVID-19, Vaxzevria 
 Version 9 
15 June 2021 
 About this information leaflet 
This leaflet provides information on the COVID-19 (coronavirus) vaccine. 
You are told: 
 what is COVID-19 
what is the COVID-19 vaccine 
 who should get the vaccine 
 why it is important to get the vaccine 
 who should not get it and who should delay getting the vaccine 
 vaccine safety and side effects 
areas where more information can be found 
 Read this information leaflet carefully. 
 You can also speak to a healthcare professional about the vaccine - your GP or Pharmacist, for example. 
 What is COVID-19? 
 COVID-19 is an illness that can affect your lungs and airways, as well as other parts of your body in certain cases. 
 A virus called coronavirus is responsible for this. 
 COVID-19 is very contagious. 
It is spread through the air by the droplets that are expelled when people cough or sneeze, that is, when someone lays their hands on surfaces that have these droplets and then the same hand lays on their eyes, nose or mouth. 
 COVID-19 can cause severe illness, hospitalisation or death. 
 Common symptoms of COVID-19 include: 
 new cough – cough of any kind, does not need to be dry 
 shortness of breath or breathing difficulties 
 loss or change of smell or taste – this means you have noticed you cannot smell or taste anything, or that it has a different smell or taste 
 You may not have all those symptoms or you may only get a mild case. 
 Sometimes it can take up to 14 days before symptoms appear. 
 They can be similar to flu or flu symptoms. 
 If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, self-isolate (stay in your room) and call your GP. 
 They will be able to arrange a COVID-19 test for you. 
 Who is most at risk of COVID-19? 
People with underlying health conditions are the most at risk of severe illness if they catch COVID-19. 
 What is the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 A vaccine is a substance designed to improve immunity (protection) against a certain disease. 
 The COVID-19 vaccine will give you protection against COVID-19. 
 If people are vaccinated, the number of people in our community who would get seriously ill or die from COVID-19 should decrease. 
 Vaccines teach your immune system how to protect you from disease. 
 It is far safer for your immune system to learn that by getting vaccinated than by catching COVID-19. 
 Who should get the vaccine? 
 You can access a list of the groups to be vaccinated on this website: www.gov.ie/covid19vaccine 
 While the decision to accept or refuse the vaccine is yours, the HSE, the World Health Organisation and the Department of Health strongly recommend that you get the vaccine as soon as it is offered to you. 
 Vaccines will be given to people as the supplies arrive in Ireland. 
 When the time comes, we will tell you how to get the vaccine through advertising or by giving you a direct invitation. 
 It is important that you do not contact the HSE about vaccination beforehand. 
 You will need to read this leaflet and the Patient Information Leaflet before you get the vaccine. 
 You can access the Patient Information Leaflet for the Moderna Vaccine at: www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinePIL 
 You can also talk to a healthcare professional in advance. 
 If you decide to get the vaccine, you will need to give your consent and this will be recorded. 
 The vaccine is being administered by the HSE free of charge. 
 Why is it important to get the vaccine? 
 The vaccine should reduce the risk of you getting COVID-19 and of you getting seriously ill. 
 By offering the vaccine to the public, the aim is to protect people and reduce the illness and deaths caused by the virus. 
 I have had COVID-19 before, do I need to get the vaccine? 
 Yes. 
 Even if you have already had COVID-19, you could get it again. 
 The vaccine will reduce the risk of you getting COVID-19 again. 
 Even if you get COVID-19 again, the symptoms are expected to be less severe due to the vaccine. 
 I have COVID-19 now, should I get the vaccine? 
 No. 
 You should delay the vaccination until you recover from COVID-19. 
 Stay: 
at least four weeks after you first notice the symptoms or 
four weeks after a positive test result for COVID-19 
 Getting the vaccine 
 Who is my vaccinator? 
 The vaccinator is the person who will give you the vaccine. 
HSE provides training to give COVID-19 vaccines. 
 Can you get the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 The COVID-19 vaccine cannot give you COVID-19. 
 You may have had COVID-19 before you received the vaccine and not noticed the symptoms until after your vaccination appointment. 
 If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, it is very important to self-isolate (stay in your room) and arrange a free test to find out if you have COVID-19. 
 If you have a fever that started more than two days after you received the vaccine, or lasts more than two days, you should self-isolate and arrange a COVID-19 test with a GP. 
 If you have symptoms of COVID-19 after the first dose, you still need to get the second dose. 
 While you may get some protection from the first dose, it is the second dose that will give you the best protection against the virus. 
 Should I get the COVID-19 vaccine if I have a high temperature? 
 You should postpone the vaccination if you have a fever (temperature of 38 degrees Celsius or higher) until you feel better. 
 Should I get the vaccine if I am pregnant or breastfeeding? 
 If you have received the first dose of the vaccine and are breastfeeding, you should get your second dose. 
 If you are pregnant, you should get your second dose of the vaccine no later than 36 weeks of pregnancy. 
 The greatest risk is that you would be seriously ill if you do not get the second dose. 
 More information is available at www.hse.ie/covidvacpreg 
 What vaccine am I being offered? 
 The vaccine we are offering you is called Vaxzevria. 
 The vaccine is manufactured by AstraZeneca. 
 It is a viral vector vaccine, which has a harmless version of another virus (the vector). 
 This will teach your body how to make protein that will trigger an immune response in you. 
 Your body will then start producing antibodies, which will help fight off the infection if COVID-19 gets into your body at a later stage. 
 Is the vaccine safe? 
 The HPRA only uses vaccines that meet the required standards of safety and effectiveness. 
 While the COVID-19 vaccines have been developed much faster than usual, the vaccine we are offering you has gone through all the usual stages to ensure that it is both safe and effective. 
To authorize the COVID-19 vaccine, it has met all clinical trials and safety checks that any other approved vaccine has met, and has similarly met international safety standards. 
 The vaccine being offered to you is called Vaxzevria and it is manufactured by AstraZeneca. 
 Regarding the vaccine: 
 It has been tested on thousands of people as part of clinical trials 
 Satisfying safety, quality and efficacy standards, and has been approved and licensed by regulators. 
 In the case of Ireland, the European Medicines Agency is the regulator – go to www.ema.europa.eu for more information. 
 How is the COVID-19 vaccine given? 
 The vaccine is given as an injection into the muscle of your upper arm. 
 It will only take a few minutes. 
 The second dose must be given between 8 weeks and 12 weeks after the first dose 
 How many doses of the COVID-19 vaccine will I need? 
 You will need two doses of the vaccine to get long-lasting protection. 
 You will get the second dose between 8 weeks and 12 weeks after the first dose. 
 What are the side effects of the vaccine? 
 Most of these are mild to moderate, short - term, and not everyone gets them. 
 The following after-effects could affect more than one in ten: 
 fatigue 
 inflammation, swelling, pain or tenderness at the site of vaccination 
 headache 
 muscle pain 
 pain in the joints 
 halloween 
fever (temperature 38 degrees Celsius or above) 
 Red or installed members, a stream, a urinal or a low number of plates in the blood (which is not a cause of symptoms) may be present in the case of no more than one in 100 people. 
 A reduced appetite, nausea, fatigue, anxiety, or lymph nodes or chills may be present in less than one in 1000 people. 
 Severe side effects, such as a severe allergic reaction, are very rare, i.e. in around one in every 100,000. 
 Your vaccinator has been trained to treat patients who have been struck by such severe allergic reactions. 
 In very rare cases, abnormal blood clots with low platelets in the blood may occur in one person out of every 100,000 people. 
 One in five of these people could die. 
 The same risk does not apply to these blood clots after the second dose of the vaccine. 
 This very rare side effect is more common in younger people. 
 In a very small number of cases, people developed the syndrome of clotting after receiving this vaccine. 
 It is a very rare but very serious condition that can sometimes be fatal. 
 Your GP, doctor or vaccinator will be able to advise you on the risks and benefits of this vaccine. 
 The COVID-19 vaccine has satisfied the same clinical trials and safety checks that all other licensed vaccines have to, but it is a new vaccine and so there is only limited information available about the long-term side effects. 
As more and more people in Ireland and across the world get this vaccine, more information about side effects will be accepted. 
 HSE will update the information on our website regularly, and if necessary, will also update the information leaflets given to people when they are getting the first or second dose of the vaccine. 
 Symptoms of blood clots are very rare 
 While the risk of blood clots and low platelets in the blood is extremely low, you should be aware of the symptoms to watch out for. 
 Get immediate medical help if you get any of these symptoms after getting the Vaxzevria vaccine: 
 1. a cough 
 Blood clots and low platelet counts within 14 days of receiving the Vaxzevria vaccine are very rare and usually have occurred in people under 50 years of age. 
 Watch out for these symptoms in the weeks following your vaccinations. 
 The symptoms of reactivated shingles are very rare 
 The carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by the squeezing of tendons from small ligaments. 
 While the risk of this legislation being used is very low, you should be aware of the signs to look out for. 
 sudden weight gain 
 You may also feel weak due to low blood pressure. 
 It is usually reported within 4 days of receiving the Vaxzevria vaccine. 
 Watch out for these symptoms in the days after your vaccinations. 
Fever after the vaccine 
 It is common for a person to get a fever after getting a vaccine. 
This usually happens within two days (48 hours) of getting the vaccine, and usually goes away within two days. 
 You are most likely to get a fever after your first dose of vaccine. 
 If you feel uncomfortable, take a paracetamol or ibuprofen according to the instructions on the box or on the information leaflet. 
 Get medical advice if you are worried. 
 Are there certain people who should not get the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 You should not get the COVID-19 vaccine: 
 if you are under 50 years of age. This is because the risk of blood clots or low platelet count in the blood after the vaccine is very rare. 
 You will be offered another vaccine. 
 if you have had a severe allergic reaction before to any of the components of the vaccine (including polysorbate 80). 
 The list of ingredients is available in the Patient Information Leaflet. 
 if you have had a severe allergic reaction after the first dose of this vaccine. 
 if you have had blood clots and low platelets in your blood following the first dose of this vaccine. 
 if you have previously had ribeadán shoulder syndrome. 
 If you have just had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to any other vaccine or treatment administered by injection, you should speak to your Doctor before getting a COVID-19 vaccine. 
 The majority of people will be able to receive a vaccine safely. 
 The vaccinator will be happy to answer any questions you may have at your vaccination appointment. 
 They will also give you a post-vaccination advice sheet, as well as a vaccine record card which will have the name and batch number of the vaccine you received. 
 Do I need to get the second dose of the vaccine if I am under 50 years of age? 
 If you are under 50 years of age and have already received your first dose of the vaccine, you should get your second dose between 8 and 12 weeks. 
 How long does it take for the vaccine to start working? 
 The vaccine will not start to work until 3 weeks after the first dose. 
Protection against COVID-19 is better after the second dose, which you should get between 8 weeks and 12 weeks after your first dose. 
 You can still get COVID-19 even after getting the vaccine. 
 Does the vaccine work in everyone? 
 Vaccines save at least 2 to 3 million people from death every year worldwide, and protect many others from lifelong illnesses. 
 Millions of people around the world have received COVID-19 vaccines. 
 There is strong, credible evidence that COVID-19 vaccines greatly reduce the risk of getting COVID-19. 
 They are an effective way to prevent deaths and serious illness from COVID-19. 
 If you have an immune deficiency disorder, the vaccine is not any more risky, but it may not work as well for you. 
 Will I be able to spread COVID-19 to others after getting the vaccine? 
 We do not yet know whether vaccinated people can spread the virus to others. 
 That’s why it is so important that we continue to follow the public health advice to stop the spread of the virus. 
 Above all, you must continue to: 
 washing your hands regularly 
 How long will immunity from the vaccine last? 
 It is not known how long the immunity will last. 
 Clinical trials are currently underway to answer that question. 
 More information 
 Read the Customer Information Leaflet for more information. 
 You can also talk to a healthcare professional about the vaccine - your GP, your Pharmacist or a member of your healthcare team, for example. 
 How can I report side effects? 
The competent authority in the Republic of Ireland is the Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA). 
As part of its role in monitoring medicines for safety, the HPRA operates a system whereby healthcare professionals or members of the public can report any suspected harmful reaction (adverse reaction) associated with medicines and vaccines that occurred in Ireland. 
 The Authority strongly recommends that all suspected adverse reactions (side effects) associated with COVID-19 vaccines be reported in order to support continuous monitoring of their safe, effective use. 
 You can also ask your Doctor or a family member to report it on your behalf. 
 As much information and knowledge as possible should be provided, and where possible, the vaccine batch number should also be provided. 
 The Authority cannot provide clinical advice regarding individual cases. 
 Members of the public should contact their healthcare professionals (Doctor or Pharmacist) if they have any medical questions. 
 Your personal information 
In order to safely deliver the vaccine to people and to record all the information needed for monitoring and managing the vaccine, the HSE will be processing your personal information. 
 The HSE will process all information in accordance with the general laws and in accordance with the Data Protection General Regulation in particular, which came into force in 2018. 
 Processing of your personal data will be lawful and fair. 
 They will only be processed for the purpose of managing vaccination. 
 The Data Minimisation Principle is in operation. 
 This means that only the data needed to identify you, book your appointment, record your vaccination and monitor its effects will be recorded. 
As a data subject, you have the following rights under the General Data Protection Regulation in relation to your personal data that is processed. 
 Information about asking for your personal data and accessing it (usually called a ‘subject access request’). 
 You are then entitled to a copy of the personal data we hold about you and to ensure that they are processed in accordance with our law. 
 To request that we correct the personal data we have about you. 
 This allows you to request that any incorrect or incomplete information we hold about you be corrected. 
 Your personal data request was rejected. 
 You may also ask us to delete or remove your personal data where you have successfully exercised your right to object to processing (see below), where we may have processed your information unlawfully or where we are required to erase your personal data to comply with local law. 
 You are also entitled to request us to delete or remove your personal information where you have exercised your right to object to processing. 
 Object to processing of your personal data. 
The COVID-19 Vaccine 
 Important Information about Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Comirnaty 
 If you decide to get the vaccine, you will have to give your consent and this consent will be recorded. 
 Why is it important to get the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 Can the COVID-19 vaccine give you COVID-19? 
 If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, it is very important to self-isolate (stay in your room) and arrange a free test to find out if you have COVID-19. 
 If you have a fever that started more than two days after you received the vaccine, or lasts more than two days, you should self-isolate and ask your GP to arrange a COVID-19 test for you. 
 If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after the first dose, you must still get the second dose. 
 Is it safe to get the vaccine if you are pregnant or breastfeeding? 
 There is no evidence that the COVID-19 vaccine is unsafe for pregnant women. 
 In clinical trials, COVID-19 vaccines were not tested in pregnant women. 
Nevertheless, over 100,000 pregnant women have received the COVID-19 vaccine in the United States. 
 There is nothing more important than the safety of you and your baby. 
 If you are pregnant, you should talk to your Obstetrician or GP about the COVID-19 vaccine. 
 You can get the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant. 
 The vaccine we are offering you is called Comirnaty and is manufactured by Pfizer/BioNTech. 
 This mRNA vaccine will teach your body how to make a protein that will trigger an immune response in you, without using the live virus that causes COVID-19. 
 The second dose must be given 28 days after the first dose 
 You will need two doses of the vaccine to get the best protection. 
 You will need to get the second dose 28 days (four full weeks) after the first dose. 
allergic reaction or at the site of the vaccine injection you were given 
 persistent 
 There may be a maximum of one spectator, steward or red member present per 100 people. 
More than one in 1,000 people at the site where the vaccine was given will develop a fever, have general aches or pains, have swollen lymph nodes or have difficulty sleeping. 
 Bell's Palsy is a rare condition affecting more than one in 10,000. 
 In rare cases, people with facial fillers may appear to have swelling. 
 This is seen in more than one in 10,000 people. 
 Severe side effects, such as severe allergic reactions, are very rare, i.e. around one in every 100,000. 
 The COVID-19 vaccine satisfied the same clinical trials and safety checks that all other licensed vaccines must satisfy, but it is a new vaccine and therefore there is only limited information available on its long-term side effects. 
This usually happens within two days (48 hours) after getting the vaccine, and it goes away within two days. 
 You are most likely to get a fever after the second dose of the vaccine. 
 if you have had a severe allergic reaction to any of the components of the vaccine (including polyethylene glycol). 
 if you have had a severe allergic reaction after the first dose of the vaccine. 
 If you have had a severe allergic reaction to any vaccine, medicine by injection, or polysorbate 80, you should talk to your Doctor before you get the COVID-19 vaccine. 
Most people will have immunity after the two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. 
 This means that they will be protected against COVID-19. 
 There is still a chance that you will get COVID-19 even after receiving the vaccine. 
 If you have an immune system disorder, there is no additional risk associated with the vaccine, but it may not work as well for you. 
 The Authority strongly recommends that all suspected harmful reactions (side effects) associated with COVID-19 vaccines be reported in order to support continued monitoring of their safe, effective use. 
 Important Information about Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine 
 You can find a list of the groups to be vaccinated on the website: www.gov.ie/covid19vaccine 
 While the decision to accept or refuse the vaccine is yours, HSE, WHO and the Department of Health strongly recommend that you accept it as soon as it is offered to you. 
