COVID-19 vaccine
Important information about the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, Comirnaty.
About this information booklet
This booklet will provide you with information about the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) vaccine.
You will receive further information on this later.
What is COVID-19?
What is a COVID-19 vaccine?
Who can take this medicine?
Is it necessary to take a vaccine?
This cannot be given to someone and then taken back.
Safe drugs and their side effects
Where can I find more information about this?
Please read this information booklet carefully.
You can speak to a professional healthcare provider about this issue, such as your doctor or pharmacist.
COVID-19 is a disease that primarily affects your lungs and respiratory system, but can also sometimes affect other parts of your body.
This was caused by the virus named Corona.
COVID-19 is highly contagious.
This virus spreads through droplets released when people cough or sneeze, or when someone touches a contaminated surface and then touches their eyes, nose, or mouth.
COVID-19 is a serious disease that can lead to hospitalization and even death.
Primary symptoms of COVID-19:
Fever (temperature of 38 degrees Celsius or higher)
To have a stutter (this can be of any type, not just a dry stutter)
Difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath
This phrase means that there is a lack or change in taste or flavor - indicating that you are aware that you cannot take a certain taste or flavor, or that you are taking a taste or flavor in a different way.
It is not necessary that you have all these symptoms mentioned here, it is possible that you may feel slightly worse than usual on some days.
It may take up to 14 days for symptoms to appear.
These symptoms could be similar to those of a cold or flu.
If you have any common symptoms of COVID-19, isolate yourself from others (stay in your room) and call your doctor (GP).
They can arrange for COVID-19 testing for you.
Who is at higher risk from COVID-19?
People who are 65 years or older and those with underlying health conditions are at higher risk, and if they contract COVID-19, they are at a greater risk of developing a severe illness.
What is the COVID-19 vaccine?
Garlic is a substance that can improve the immune system's response to certain specific diseases.
The COVID-19 vaccine will protect you from COVID-19 infection.
If people are vaccinated, the number of individuals in that community who may become seriously ill or die from COVID-19 can be reduced.
The COVID-19 vaccine will protect us from getting infected with COVID-19.
Vaccination is more secure for boosting your immunity in the situation of COVID-19 infections.
Who will get the medicine?
You can view the list of priority groups on this website: www.gov.ie/covid19vaccine
But whether to take the vaccine or not is dependent on you, WHO and the health department recommend that when the opportunity to get vaccinated is available to you, you should definitely take the vaccine.
Lasers are available in Ireland.
When it's time for you to get your COVID-19 vaccine, we will invite you directly through public announcements.
But it is important to not contact HSE before vaccination.
Before taking the medicine, please read the 'leaflet' and 'manufacturer's patient information leaflet'.
You can view the 'Manufacturers Patient Information Leaflet' at www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinePIL.
You can first speak with any healthcare provider.
If you decide to take the vaccine, you will need to give your consent for it to be recorded.
HSE is providing free medicines.
Why is it so important to get the COVID-19 vaccine?
The COVID-19 vaccine will help reduce the risk of getting COVID-19 and protect you from severe illness and complications of the disease.
Our goal is to provide vaccines to people in order to protect them and reduce the number of deaths caused by this virus.
I have previously been infected with COVID-19, do I still need to get vaccinated?
Yes.
Even if you have had COVID-19 before, you can still get infected again.
Due to vaccination, the risk of you getting COVID-19 again will be reduced.
Even if you get infected with COVID-19 again, the vaccine will reduce the severity of your symptoms.
I have COVID-19 now, do I need to take medication now?
No, until you fully recover from COVID-19, you should not take the vaccine.
Do this for that:
Symptoms appear, then at least four to eight weeks later, or four to eight weeks after testing positive for COVID-19.
Information about medicines
Who is my vaccinator?
They are trained by HSE to administer the COVID-19 vaccine.
Can you get COVID-19 after taking the COVID-19 vaccine?
No, you cannot get infected with COVID-19 through the COVID-19 vaccine.
It is possible that you were infected with COVID-19 before taking the vaccine, and you received information about these symptoms after taking the vaccine.
If you have any symptoms of COVID-19, it is necessary to isolate yourself from others (stay in your room) and arrange for free testing for COVID-19.
If you develop a fever two days after taking the vaccine or if the fever lasts longer than two days, you should isolate yourself from others and consult a doctor (GP) for a COVID-19 test.
If you have symptoms of a mild cold after getting the first dose, it is still necessary for you to take the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.
Where you may get some level of protection with the first dose of the vaccine, you will receive better protection against the virus when you take the second dose.
If I have a high temperature, should I get the COVID-19 vaccine?
No.
If you have a fever (38 degrees Celsius or higher), you should not take a bath until you feel better.
Is it safe for pregnant women or breastfeeding women to take medication?
Someone who is not a witness cannot say for sure that if you are pregnant, the COVID-19 vaccine is unsafe for you.
Pregnant women should not undergo extensive medical tests, so there is limited information available at this time.
If you are a healthcare worker or in a high-risk group and are pregnant, you should consult your obstetrician or doctor (GP) regarding taking the COVID-19 vaccine.
If you are breastfeeding, you can get the COVID-19 vaccine.
Which medicine has been given to me?
Yes, we are giving you the vaccine called Comirnaty, which is produced by Pfizer/BioNTech.
mRNA vaccines teach your body how to produce a type of protein, which can trigger an immune response against the virus that causes COVID-19.
Then your body creates an antibody that will help fight infection with the COVID-19 virus if it enters your body in the future.
Is the medicine safe?
HSE only uses the vaccine when it meets the necessary standards of safety and effectiveness.
The development of the COVID-19 vaccine is progressing at a faster pace than usual.
We are working to develop and validate a safe and effective vaccine that is necessary for all to go through the process of approval.
To obtain approval for the use of the COVID-19 vaccine, it has followed the safety international standards, through which the COVID-19 vaccine has undergone all clinical trials and safety checks along with meeting international standards, from which other licensed medicines are derived.
We are giving you the vaccine called Comirnaty, which is made by Pfizer/BioNTech.
Thousands of people have been tested during this clinical trial.
The stringent standards of safety, quality, and effectiveness have been fully met, and approval has been obtained from regulators, and a license has been granted.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is the regulatory authority for Ireland - for more information, visit www.ema.europa.eu.
How is the COVID-19 vaccine administered?
A COVID-19 vaccine is administered on the upper arm of your hand.
It will take a few minutes.
How many doses of the COVID-19 vaccine do I need?
To obtain the best protection, you will need two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine.
You need to take the second dose after 28 days (four weeks) of taking the first dose.
What are the side effects of waxing?
All other medications can have side effects.
This is mostly temporary and does not happen to everyone.
Out of every 10 people, more than one can experience the following prefixes:
To get tired
Softness or swelling on the injected area
Heartache
muscle pain
Joint pain
To be anxious or nervous
temperature (38 degrees Celsius or higher temperature)
After vaccination, among more than 1,000 people, one or more people may experience itching, swelling in the lymph nodes, or insomnia at the site where the vaccine was given.
Bell's palsy is a rare side effect that is seen in less than 1 out of 10,000 people.
Serious side effects of vaccines such as allergic reactions are extremely rare, with approximately one in ten million people experiencing them for all vaccines.
Your vaccinator is trained to handle rare severe allergic reactions.
People who have had facial fillers may experience swelling on their faces occasionally.
More than 10,000 people can be found in this place.
The COVID-19 vaccine has gone through clinical trials and safety testing, from which all licensed vaccines are derived.
But this drug is new and limited information is available about its long-term side effects.
As more and more people in Ireland and around the world receive this vaccine, information about its side effects will become available.
The HSE information on our website will be regularly updated and if necessary, the information leaflets given to people for the first or second dose of the vaccine will be updated.
Fever after vaccination
Fever after vaccination is a very common symptom.
Usually, these side effects occur within two days (48 hours) of taking the vaccine and go away within the next two days.
After the second dose of the vaccine, you are more likely to experience a fever.
If you feel unwell, take Paracetamol or Ibuprofen as directed on the box or leaflet.
If you are feeling concerned, then seek medical advice.
Are there people who should not take the COVID-19 vaccine?
You should consider getting the COVID-19 vaccine.
If you have had a severe allergic reaction to any component of latex (including polyethylene glycol)
Please refer to the 'Manufacturers Patient Information Leaflet' for a list of ingredients.
You have a severe allergic reaction to the first dose of the vaccine.
If you have had any adverse reactions to vaccines, injections, or serious allergic reactions due to polysorbate 80, speak with your doctor before getting the COVID-19 vaccine.
Many people can safely take the vaccine.
The person who will be giving you the injection will be ready to answer your questions at the time of your appointment.
After vaccination, you will receive post-care advice related to care in the form of a pamphlet.
On the day of vaccination, you will also be given a vaccination record card which will have the name of the vaccine given and the batch number written on it.
How much time does it take to do this work?
After receiving two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, many people develop immunity.
Meaning, they will be safe from COVID-19.
It takes 7 days to complete the task after taking another dose.
After getting vaccinated, the chances of getting infected with COVID-19 are significantly reduced.
Do all of them work in the same company?
Every year, due to the lack of access to vaccines, at least 2 to 3 million people worldwide lose their lives, and many people continue to suffer from diseases throughout their lifetime.
So far, millions of people around the world have received the COVID-19 vaccine.
There is strong evidence that the chances of getting COVID-19 were significantly reduced due to the lockdown imposed because of COVID-19.
Vaccines are extremely effective in preventing deaths and serious illnesses caused by COVID-19.
If your immune system is weak, there is no additional risk in getting vaccinated, but it is possible that the vaccine may not be as beneficial for you.
If I have found solace, it means that I will not spread COVID-19 to others.
We are not sure yet if getting vaccinated against COVID-19 prevents the spread of the virus to others.
It is important to follow public health guidelines to prevent the spread of all viruses.
In special circumstances, you still need this thing:
Follow social distancing guidelines (maintain a distance of at least two meters from others wherever possible).
Keep your face covered.
Wash your hands regularly.
Thank you for keeping yourself and others safe.
How long does the immunity system stay active due to vaccination?
We still do not know how long our immune response will last.
Clinical examination is being started to gather information about this.
More information
For more information, read the 'Manufacturers Patient Information Leaflet'.
Yes, after you have been vaccinated, you will receive a certificate, which you can also access at www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinePIL.
You can also speak to any professional healthcare provider about this, such as your doctor, pharmacist, or healthcare team.
For more information on the COVID-19 vaccine, visit www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinematerials, where other formats as well as translation assistance are also available.
Where can I file a complaint about the adverse effects?
Just like for every vaccination, you can also report any adverse effects related to this health product to the Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA).
The Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA) is the regulatory body in Ireland for medicines, medical devices, and other healthcare products.
Inspection of the safety of medicines by HPRA
A system that can track any adverse effects related to medicines and vaccines through which healthcare workers or members of the public can report any suspicious adverse reactions, which has been implemented in Ireland.
The HPRA encourages reports of suspected adverse reactions related to the COVID-19 vaccine so that continuous monitoring can ensure its safe and effective use.
Please visit www.hpra.ie/report to report any adverse reactions related to the COVID-19 vaccine.
You can also mention any concerns regarding your doctor or any family member about this.
More and more information needs to be gathered about this matter, and wherever possible, reference to the batch number of the vaccine should be made.
In the case of HPRA, medical advice cannot be given individually.
People need to contact their healthcare provider (your doctor or pharmacist) for treatment.
After your Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech) COVID-19 vaccination
Thank you for keeping yourself and others safe by getting vaccinated.
After your vaccination, we recommend that you carefully read this document because it will help you understand how you may feel in the coming days and where to find more information about it.
You should read the information that was given to you today.
We will also provide you with the record of today's vaccination.
Please keep the record card safe.
What could happen in the next few days?
Some people will be informed about the following prefixes taken from the medicine pack:
Feeling soft or swollen at the site where the vaccine was administered.
Pain in the muscles
Diarrhea
Fever (temperature of 38 degrees Celsius or higher)
Just like you can report any side effects of vaccinations, you can also lodge your complaints about adverse effects related to health products with the Health Products Regulatory Authority (HPRA).
Please report any adverse effects experienced due to the COVID-19 vaccination at www.hpra.ie/report.
What should I do if I start feeling feverish or unwell?
If you are feeling unwell, you can take either Paracetamol or Ibuprofen.
If you have a fever for more than 48 hours, you should contact a doctor.
If you are pregnant, do not take ibuprofen.
Do I need to do anything before taking the second dose of vaccination?
If you are taking a second or last dose of the vaccine, inform the vaccination team about any changes in your health that were previously discussed.
When you go to take the second dose of the vaccine, make sure to carry the report card with you.
It will happen in the next 28 days (4 weeks).
Good news
The COVID-19 vaccine will protect you from the severe outcomes of COVID-19.
Exercise will boost your immune system to help protect you from diseases.
Vaccination is more effective for building immunity against the spread of COVID-19 compared to other preventive measures.
You are still learning.
The effect of taking the second dose of the vaccine is seen after 7 days.
After taking the vaccine, there is still a slight chance that you may get infected with COVID-19.
We still don't know if getting vaccinated prevents the spread of the virus to others, so it's important to follow public health advice.
Follow social distancing guidelines (maintain a distance of at least 2 meters from others).
Wearing a mask.
Wash your hands regularly.
Do you have any questions?
If you are uncertain about an issue or have any questions related to the COVID-19 vaccine, please feel free to discuss with us.
Adverse effect
Report any adverse effects caused by HPRA at www.hpra.ie/report.
Your personal information
HSE processes all necessary information for the safe operation and testing of vaccines and their management.
HSE will follow the process of obtaining all information in accordance with the general rules and specifically the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came into effect in 2018.
The process of handling your information is in accordance with the law.
This will be specifically designed for the management of cataract surgery.
The principle of data minimization has been implemented. This means that only the necessary information will be collected for the purpose of identifying you, determining the time of your visit, recording your interactions, and analyzing the results.
You have the following rights regarding data subject to GDPR related to processing your personal information.
You can request information and registration related to your personal data. (Commonly known as a data subject access request)
This enables us to receive a copy of the personal data we hold about you and to investigate the reasons for it, as we follow the process according to the law.
You can request us to make improvements in the information available with us.
It helps us become capable of correcting incomplete or incorrect information available to us.
You can request us to delete your personal information.
It is not possible for us to delete personal data that we have from our records if there is no valid reason for us to do so.
You also have the right to tell us to remove your sensitive information, where you have exercised your rights to object to processing.
Objection to the processing of your personal data.
It is important to keep an eye on symptoms of ILI and SARI for maintaining health, and seek medical attention at health clinics and fever clinics.
This should include family, people in the surroundings, work space, and other factors that come into contact.
The evidence of detecting positive patients should be less than 5% of total tests conducted.
Patient count, their contact tracing, digital mapping, will help in creating containment zones.
It is important to follow the guidelines provided by the authorities while isolating oneself at home.
This should be thoroughly investigated and also the complete genome sequencing should be done along with it.
Let's discuss this in the meeting.
Therefore, the district administration should focus on implementing strict and effective action plans in accordance with the guidelines of the Central Health Account.
They keep pulling his ears to make him obey.
Ask such a question.
Having seen the history of communicable diseases, sometimes the speed of the spread of this second wave of the disease and the number of people falling ill seems to be higher.
We will learn some graphics through this medium.
After that, the number of patients gradually decreased.
The daily number of patients has increased over the past three months, indicating a rise.
This is the largest increase in a single day in Maharashtra so far.
Now, as the second wave has arrived, the number of patients is increasing in urban areas such as Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur.
This figure reached 6,740 on February 25th.
Many people went to the village to vote, and as a result, the number of travelers also increased.
As soon as the first wave of COVID hit, people became complacent when they saw a decline in cases, which is why experts say that the numbers are rising again.
Currently, 60 percent of COVID patients are in Maharashtra in the country.
There are 166,353 patients in one of the hospitals in Maharashtra.
The number 23,29,464 means that there are approximately twenty percent patients in Maharashtra.
This list contains the new places in Kerala. (As of 19th March)
On December 24, 2020, there were 1,28,820 tests conducted in the state.
Experts have expressed concern about this issue while speaking to the BBC.
It means that although the number of patients is increasing, the percentage of those succumbing to death has significantly decreased compared to the first wave.
In September, there were a few days when the death toll had reached four figures.
By March 18, a total of 38,04,142 people in Maharashtra have been given the dose of the vaccine.
Mutations that occur in viruses are not necessarily responsible for the changes seen in the pandemic. Experts say that research is needed on this matter.
But the changes in names are evident from the characteristics of that profession.
In January, a group of geneticists in India claimed that out of '140 million cases in the country, only 6,400 genomes have been sequenced.'
It was reported that action was taken in Mumbai against 20 lakh people who were not wearing masks.
Students of 10th and 12th standard have been exempted from this.
The shopping malls will be open until 10 o'clock.
Regular worship, prayer, and daily tasks related to cleaning and maintaining the place will be carried out with the presence of at least 5 people to maintain the decorum.
This lockdown will be in effect until midnight on March 31st.
But during this pandemic, medical services, offices of the media, milk sales, vegetable and fruit sales will continue.
Classes of 10th and 12th have been suspended.
There will be 50 people attending the family wedding ceremony.
Some strict restrictions have been imposed in the district to break the chain of coronavirus infections.
The decision to require no mask, no entry method has been taken.
Customers will be served sealed meals in the room.
There is a night curfew in place from 11 pm to 5 am.
There should be a certain level of decorum maintained for both the beginning and end of a marriage ceremony.
The commission has issued identification documents in that regard.
Therefore, the principles of guidance for taking exams have also changed.
It is best to have your own car.
It is advisable to avoid eating and drinking outside while traveling.
"घोळक्यात जाणं अर्थातच टाळावं" translates to "Think before you leap" in English.
Maintain social distancing strictly.
Stay right there.
The commission has made it mandatory to wear gloves.
Because she cares about everyone like you.
During that period, avoid sharing food from each other's plate and strictly refrain from sharing water.
Prepare a type of bubble bath at home.
After that, she will disconnect the call.
Just after the exam, head straight home.
After such a big exam, the mind feels relieved.
Currently, the number of patients is increasing rapidly in Maharashtra.
If students only cooperate, it will not only benefit them but also the administration system.
Therefore, it is important for supervisors and representatives of the administration to collaborate regularly.
They shared this information through Twitter.
Please take care of all the contacts that have come to me and handle them with care and diligence.
They have issued an appeal to follow the rules strictly on the sidelines of the coronavirus.
Due to coronavirus, 70 deaths have been recorded.
The vegetable market, fruit market, and grocery stores will now remain open until 4 o'clock.
The district administration has organized a meeting to discuss the current situation, and I have come to attend it.
On March 18, 2021, a total of 2,913 patients were recorded in the city, meaning there were 2,913 confirmed cases of coronavirus patients.
Due to coronavirus, it has been recorded that 14 people have died in a single day.
As a result, the poor suffered heavy losses.
The mortality rate has decreased due to the increased immunity against the coronavirus among people.
Even though the number of COVID patients is increasing, due to the improved immunity of citizens, a large number of patients are now opting for home isolation treatment.
According to district administration information, in the past twenty-four hours, 15,000 citizens in the district have been tested for coronavirus.
Citizens who violate the rules are being penalized by the Enforcement Squad of the Municipal Corporation.
COVID-19 vaccination has also started in private hospitals with government medical colleges, hospitals, Mayo, AIIMS, and municipal dispensaries in the city.
The situation is serious and health services may be affected in the next 15-20 days, said the Chief Minister.
I will be speaking with experts in the next 2 days.
Today we may reach or surpass a figure of 45 thousand patients.
The situation in France is delicate.
It is important to prioritize saving lives of the people first.
After taking two doses of the vaccine, some people have still contracted the virus.
That is why I need your cooperation as well.
In protest against this government decision, students held a demonstration in Mumbai today.
Currently, the number of COVID-19 patients is increasing in the state.
For this demand, students have been protesting on the streets of Pune and Nashik for the past few days.
Afterwards, the police arrived at the scene and took statements from 15 to 20 students.
Many students from remote and rural areas faced several challenges in online education due to lack of access.
I have explained it to them.
You need to take the exam.
There will be a final exam between May 22nd and June 10th.
After the results of these two exams are announced, Varsha Gaikwad mentioned that the third supplementary exam will also be conducted.
After that, the rules of these essays were also made public.
Assurance has been given in these rules for the 10th and 12th grade exams.
This year, students will be given more time to write their exams.
Therefore, our effort is to create a stress-free environment for taking exams.
Regarding this, Varsha Gayakwad said, "The number of students appearing for the board exams is more than 30 lakh."
If a class in that school has fewer students, nearby schools can also be used as centers.
Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad has announced that the time for writing papers will be increased.
The state will be under a strict lockdown from Friday night at 8 pm to Monday morning at 7 am, as announced by Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik.
I do not prescribe medication to those who are not in need.
If strict measures are not implemented quickly, the number of hospital beds may decrease.
During the last time, the Prime Minister suddenly imposed a lockdown, causing laborers to be stranded.
The administration has decided to further tighten the restrictions on the areas located on that side of the border.
He spoke with many leaders as well.
This carelessness could prove to be harmful not only for oneself but also for others.
Lockdowns similar to this one have been imposed in other places as well.
If citizens do not voluntarily follow the rules of Corona, a decision will be taken in two days regarding this, said Chief Minister Thackeray.
Is the government responsible if anyone in our family or someone else contracts coronavirus?
Why hasn't the education department considered this issue when there is a contentious situation?
Why should we put our lives at risk?
The students appearing for this exam answered all the questions in Marathi with the BBC Marathi.
This mentions that the board exams of the tenth and twelfth grades will be exempted.
There is an opportunity for students to take exams again in the month of June, as exams are scheduled in April and May.
There is a lockdown in the state with restrictions in place, and a complete lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays.
Therefore, it seems that Uddhav Thackeray's government is hesitant about conducting the board exams.
There is no clarity in the government's new regulations regarding this.
Do you need to wear gloves?
The examination center will be located at the school or junior college where the candidate is studying.
Since the exams have not been conducted in April, there is a huge task of evaluating the answer sheets of students pending.
Students have taken to the streets with banners in hand to protest for this demand.
As a result, students have questions and confusion in their minds.
We also met with the Minister of School Education, Varsha Gaikwad.
We were expecting the government to change its decision regarding exams after seeing the increasing cases of coronavirus in the state.
The availability of beds is completely full.
Will this not affect our results and future admissions?
Even young children are now getting affected by the coronavirus.
Has the Education Department not made various options available?
It is mandatory for us to have 55% marks for admission to a medical college.
Due to the results of this examination, the path to their higher education will be open.
In such challenging circumstances, it is known that successfully conducting exams for lakhs of children can be a major challenge.
The failure rate in taking the tenth and twelfth grade board exams has increased.
The situation of online education in rural areas is extremely challenging.
I have not learned/understood the subject and yet I have to write the exam.
But in such challenging circumstances, we cannot avoid taking exams.
It is not advisable to request examinations based on arbitrary scheduling and decisions made without proper planning.
Is it possible to consider other options for the exams?
Quality is also important for you.
But students will be reminded to follow all rules with full attention and diligence.
This time, BBC Marathi interviewed Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad a few days before March 31, 2021.
Students can take exams in June if a lockdown is announced now or in the future.
She said that taking exams is necessary.
After thinking about it, Varsha Gaikwad said, "I cannot give an answer to this."
What should children in the village do if their internet connection goes down while taking exams?
The lunch box for many students is not ready by 6 o'clock.
Some students are requesting to postpone this exam, while others are insisting that the exam should be conducted as per the schedule.
Some students preparing for competitive exams in Pune have also been affected by the spread of coronavirus.
If the cause report is positive, then the exam cannot be taken.
Children also have such fears in their minds.
If this student goes to the exam, their confidence will increase.
She says that due to the lockdown, she is unable to get the lunchbox on time, so she suggests getting a parcel from the hotel.
Many students do not have another option, so they stay in Pune as there is no alternative for them.
Students preparing for exams often exhibit signs of stress, but instead of seeking help, they try to cope by taking medication and studying.
The food in Pune has become famous.
Many children are showing symptoms of coronavirus.
If the test result is positive, the student will have to be quarantined, so the students are not taking the test.
We also participated in the protest, but the situation was different at that time.
Therefore, if the exams are over, the students will automatically go home and there will be less interaction, they also say that.
They made a letter public in this context.
Our doctor friends are prescribing painkiller tablets to us.
As a result, the number of confirmed cases has increased.
A disabled student can inspire many people.
But the main difference between the first wave of coronavirus and the second wave is the 'vaccine'.
Hence, there is a demand in Maharashtra for giving the vaccine to everyone over the age of 25 years, considering that 60% of the active cases in the country are in Maharashtra.
This request to remove the age limit for vaccination and to provide vaccines to everyone above 25 years of age has been made by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
The Indian Medical Association (IMA), the largest organization of doctors in the country, has written a letter to the Prime Minister to raise the retirement age to 18 years.
Therefore, everyone above the age of 25 should be given the COVID preventive vaccine.
They have requested a grant of over two crore for that purpose.
After that, the central government had announced to provide the vaccine to this age group from 1st April.
IMA has written a letter to the Prime Minister demanding that all citizens above 18 years of age be given the vaccine.
As a result, individual's immune response increases, society develops herd immunity and the severity of the disease also decreases, as mentioned in your letter, IMA has also advised to establish 'walk-in' vaccination centers everywhere.
The central government has stated that the certificate of approval for the vaccination that has been started in other progressive countries around the world is appropriate for the class that is currently being relied upon by the government to provide vaccines in the manner in which they are given.
Those who are at higher risk should be given the vaccine.
Just like you, countries like Britain, America, France, Sweden, etc. have also not provided vaccines to everyone in the world.
Their reactions to vaccination are even more severe than yours.
There has been a rapid increase in the popularity of veganism worldwide.
Vaccines are given to populations that are susceptible to and at risk of diseases.
When the issue of boundary dispute comes up, the role of the Prime Minister becomes crucial when demands are made, attention will be focused on the Prime Minister's role.
In that, we see that the highest number of patients are in the age group of 22 to 45.
Therefore, work needs to be done quickly.
But have you vaccinated everyone over the age of 45?
If everyone above 25 years of age is prescribed a vaccine now, it will incur additional expenses.
But this question is not just political, it has become an economic issue for Parakoti.
They requested a period of two days to make an appropriate decision.
But there are protests by the business community in many cities in the state.
The merchants from Pune laid a branch of famous Lakshmi Road and decorated the street with lights, showcasing their products.
We have decided to start a protest against it.
An unusual announcement was made in the evening, and it changed only at night.
There was also a protest in the second capital Nagpur today.
They have now requested the government to allow all shops to remain open for five days a week.
We, all traders, testify that if there is any need for security, we will take care of it, as mentioned in this letter.
He will still be able to control the crowd even in such a busy situation.
It is expected that the government's role will be clear on Friday.
The Chief Minister has stated that serious consideration will be given to the demands of the business community, but it is not yet clear how they will address this issue.
To move forward, one must have faith in everyone.
In their Facebook live session, they also gave some valuable advice.
After that, these birds showed the government what real power is.
Raj Thackeray has also requested the journalist association to allow shops to remain closed for a few days in a week, rather than keeping them closed every day.
Yashomati Thakur has written a letter to the Chief Minister requesting to relax the restrictions in Amravati district.
Even after such leaps, local opposition does not seem to be fading away.
Three men and a woman patient died in Nagpur, information given by Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar.
This hospital had been designated as a dedicated mini COVID hospital.
Other COVID-infected patients from Wockhardt Hospital have been shifted to other COVID hospitals in the city, as per information given by Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut.
Five patients were receiving treatment at the ICU at this time.
This time, social workers Suraj and Vankhede were present in the hospital premises.
Due to the spread of COVID-19 in the ICU, three critically ill patients had to be moved out.
Devendra Fadnavis, the opposition leader, has informed the district collectors to provide topmost assistance to patients and the injured.
I empathize with the relatives of the deceased.
On Friday (April 9, 2021), 58 thousand new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the state.
Only essential services will continue to operate at this time.
The Department of Civil Assistance and Rehabilitation of the state has issued guidelines for addressing common questions raised by citizens and providing assistance to alleviate their concerns.
If the rules are not followed, then the local administration can take decisions with the approval of the state government.
Alternatively, home delivery can be requested as per the rules.
But, it's not coming to live.
But, I will not be staying at the hotel and will come just for dining.
In the city of Amravati, the always bustling Rajkamal Chowk, Irwin Chowk, Panchvati, and Jaystambh Chowk were the main squares where citizens gathered.
All shops are closed due to the exclusion of essential services in the city.
The image depicts a crowded intersection in the city, with a traffic signal, a Mirajkar ticket counter, and a bus station in the vicinity where the roads intersect.
But the decision to postpone it further was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.
The emotions that are alive in you today, I see them reflected in Maharashtra once again.
It was around ten o'clock at night.
I have separated the essential services from this.
Many states in the country have done so.
All states are looking at each other before making a decision, according to the information provided by the central government, this decision has not been announced by any state government.
The Maharashtra government has made efforts to stop such people by imposing a night curfew.
The BBC has asked the Delhi government for a response to the recent incident, but they have not received an official response yet.
The answers of these three are also different.
The government is concerned about this issue and is planning some measures, it seems.
The transmission of the coronavirus primarily occurs through droplets.
In this, the snow accumulates on a certain part of the page.
Some extremely subtle particles may need to remain in wave form until a certain time.
Wherever there is free flow of air, the possibility of spreading coronavirus is reduced, and places like restaurants, bars, gyms, where there is limited ventilation, there is a higher chance of spreading coronavirus.
If people take the initiative to go to such places on their own, then there will be no need for the government to take action.
Another thing is that people often go out at night to work less and most of the time to have fun.
But he incurred financial loss.
Preventing people from moving from one place to another without solid reasons can be a common principle.
Creating containment zones to stop the spread of the virus could be another way to control the situation.
This is not a very effective way to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, but this problem is now being taken seriously and people need to start taking it seriously now. If people do not take it seriously now, the situation could worsen further. This message should definitely reach the people.
Reducing people's interactions can help control the spread of the coronavirus, as proven by scientific research.
It was clearly stated in the last paragraph of this letter that the weekend lockdown and night curfew have shown significant results in controlling the spread of the coronavirus.
He had been admitted to the hospital for treatment a few days ago.
They have mentioned that they may have to stay in isolation for the next few days.
Sachin had tweeted, "Thank you for your wishes and prayers."
Sachin tweeted congratulations to all Indian teammates on the tenth anniversary of their World Cup victory.
After testing positive for coronavirus, Sachin has been quarantined at home and treatment has started there, this information has been provided by him.
Unfortunately, today my COVID test came back positive.
I am following all the treatments as per the doctor's advice.
Earlier, even Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's wife Rashmi Thackeray were also affected by the coronavirus.
What did Rajesh Tope say after the Task Force meeting?
A discussion was held regarding the COVID situation in this state during this meeting.
The excessive and inappropriate use of remdesivir needs to be stopped, as stated by the Task Force.
Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the COVID Task Force Committee have held a meeting, and there is a possibility that the final decision regarding the lockdown may be taken after the discussions.
This number has seen more than 2 lakh searches in just 3 days.
On April 7, a total of 2,35,749 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the state, out of which 1,33,344 were RT-PCR tests and 1,02,405 were antigen tests.
60 percent of the patients are discharged from the hospital, while 40 percent are undergoing institutional rehabilitation.
There will be a discussion about this in the meeting.
Our employees' salaries and tax benefits also need to be standardized.
Accordingly, it is necessary for laborers to stay at the construction site where work has started. Permission will be granted only for literary purposes.
Therefore, as the government is considering implementing another complete lockdown, it is necessary for them to also consider the working class.
No discussion has taken place yet regarding making changes in this.
Passengers traveling to the outskirts should not worry about missing the bus, as some long-distance buses will not be stopped abruptly.
She is now earning around 15-16 lakhs.
A full lockdown has been imposed on Saturdays and Sundays.
But if the cafeteria is a part of a hotel, it will be reserved for guests staying there, entry will not be allowed for outsiders.
The industry and production sector will flourish, but it is important to ensure that health regulations are followed strictly in this area.
If Maharashtra does not receive enough supply of oxygen within eight days, then we will not send a single car out of the Serum Institute in Pune to Maharashtra.
The ruthless politics that has started in Maharashtra is brutal, as mentioned in the forefront of the media.
The Chief Minister has called for a meeting of the task force tomorrow (April 11). Decisions regarding the lockdown will be taken after this meeting.
The sources present at this meeting have informed BBC Marathi that there is consideration to impose another strict lockdown in the state.
Is the state prepared for a lockdown if it is announced in this meeting?
The state government is facing a big challenge in controlling the spread of the coronavirus.
However, they did not attend the meeting as they were injured in a weapon incident.
We must prioritize saving lives first.
However, it is very important to first prevent the spread of the rapidly increasing infection and disease by taking any necessary measures every day.
In such circumstances, if you want to win this battle, you will need to show a little patience and perseverance.
Due to the ongoing economic crisis, they are now in dire straits.
Think about how you can help those who need to be stopped, it should be your priority.
