 COVID-19 Vaccine 
 Pfizer/BioNTech लस, Comirnaty बाबत महत्त्वपुर्ण माहिती 
 याची योग्य व्याख्या आणि निर्णय विषयक माहिती 
 This booklet will provide you with information about the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) vaccine. 
 यात पुढिलप्रमाणे माहिती मिळेल. 
 What is Covid-19? 
 What is the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 Who can take this vaccine? 
 Is it necessary to take the vaccine? 
 या खात्याचा तपशील यामध्ये आढळू शकतो. 
 Safe Vaccine and its Side Effects 
  याची अधिक माहिती तुम्हाला कुठे मिळू शकते. 
 भारतात मोठ्या प्रमाणावर एका दिवसात दुसऱ्यावेळी लागणार आणि त्यामुळे दुसऱ्यावेळी लागणाऱ्या रुग्णांची संख्या वाढत आहे. 
 You can talk to a commercial healthcare provider about this vaccine, like your doctor or pharmacist. 
 COVID-19 is a disease that affects your lungs and respiratory system, and sometimes other parts of your body. 
 It was due to the virus named Corona. 
 COVID-19 is highly infectious. 
 This spreads through the air, when it touches the parts of the body where the infection has spread or when it touches the eyes, nose or mouth. 
 COVID-19 is a serious disease, it can also be a reason for death and it can also be a reason for admission to the hospital. 
 Primary symptoms of COVID-19: 
 Fever (38 degree Celsius or higher) 
 Choking (खोकला) 
 Difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath 
 यात जे एक गोष्ट बोलते की तुम्ही जर तुमचं व्यसन छोटावा, तर तुम्हाला त्याचा वास वा चव घेण्यास मिळेल. 
 There is no need to have all the symptoms of this infection in you, it may be that you feel less feverish than usual. 
 Symptoms दिसण्यासाठी 14 दिवसांचा वेळ लागू शकतो. 
 This can have symptoms similar to colds or pneumonia. 
 If you have any of the common symptoms of COVID-19, isolate yourself (stay in your room) and call your doctor (GP). 
 They will be able to arrange for COVID-19 tests for you. 
 Who is at higher risk from COVID-19? 
 People aged 65 years or above, and those with specific health conditions are at higher risk if they contract COVID-19. 
 What is the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 A vaccine is a substance that can improve immunity for some specific diseases. 
 COVID-19 vaccine will protect you from COVID-19 infection. 
 If people in a community are vaccinated, then the number of people who become seriously ill or die due to COVID-19 can be reduced. 
 The COVID-19 vaccine will protect you from COVID-19 infection. 
 Vaccination is more secure for your immunity in the situation of COVID-19 infection. 
 Who will get the vaccine? 
 या वेबसाईटवर जाऊन आपली क्रमांकित लसीकरणाची यादी तपासू शकता. 
 But las ghēṇaṇṃ vā n ghēṇaṃ hē āplavyar avalambūn āhē, HSE, Vishwa Arogya Sanghatanā āṇī ārogya vibhāg śiphāras karatāt kī las miḷaṇyācī sandhī tumhālā uplabdh hotācah, tumhī las avashya ghȳā. 
 Vaccine will be available in Ireland. 
 When the time comes to get vaccinated against COVID-19, we will invite you directly through the advertisement. 
 But, prior contact with HSE is important for vaccination. 
 Read the leaflet and manufacturer's presentation information leaflet before taking the vaccine. 
 You can view 'Manufacturers Patient Information Leaflet' on www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinePIL. 
 You can first talk to any health worker. 
 If you decide to take the vaccine, you will have to give consent for it, which will be recorded. 
 HSE is providing free vaccines. 
 Why is it so important to take the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 COVID-19 ची लस तुम्हांला COVID-19 पासून होणार्‍या धोक्याला कमी करेल आणि आजारपणाच्या गंभीर गुंतागुंतीपासून बचाव करेल. 
 Our goal is to protect people, reduce the number of deaths due to this virus. 
 If I have been infected with COVID-19 before, do I need to take the vaccine? 
 होय. 
 If you were previously infected with COVID-19, you can get infected again. 
 The vaccine will reduce the risk of getting COVID-19 again. 
 Even if you get reinfected with COVID-19, the vaccine will reduce the severity of symptoms. 
 If I have COVID-19 now, do I need to take the vaccine now? 
 No, until you recover from COVID-19, you should not take the vaccine. 
 Do this for that: 
 Symptoms न दिसताना 4 ते 8 आठवड्यांनंतर किंवा COVID-19 पॉझिटिव्ह आल्याच्या 4 ते 8 आठवड्यांनंतर 
 Availability of vaccines 
 माझा वैक्सीनेटर कोण आहे? 
 She is trained by HSE to administer the Covid-19 vaccine. 
 Will I get COVID-19 if I take the COVID-19 vaccine? 
 No, COVID-19 च्या लसीमुळे तुम्हांला COVID-19 चे संक्रमण होऊ शकत नाही. 
 There is a possibility that you got infected with COVID-19 before taking the vaccine and after taking the vaccine, you got information about these symptoms. 
 If you have any common symptoms of COVID-19, then it is necessary to isolate yourself from others (Stay in your room) and make arrangements for free testing of COVID-19. 
 If you have a fever after taking the vaccine for two days or if the fever lasts longer than two days, you should isolate yourself from others and get tested for Covid-19 by a doctor (GP). 
 Even if you have symptoms of COVID-19 after the second dose, you need to take another dose. 
 Where the first dose can give you a little protection, taking the second dose will give you a good protection against the virus. 
 जर मला उच्च तापमान आहे तर मी कोविड-१९ ची लस घेतली पाहिजे का? 
 तर आधी तुम्हाला त्यांच्या विषयी काही माहिती आहे का? 
 If you have a fever (38 degrees Celsius or higher) before getting the vaccine, you should wait until you are feeling better. 
 कोरोनाची लस गर्भवती असल्यावर किंवा स्तनपान करणार्‍या महिलांनी घेऊ शकतात का? 
 No one can say that you are pregnant, so the COVID-19 vaccine is unsafe for you. 
 Pregnant women are not tested for the comprehensive vaccine, so the evidence is less available at this time. 
 If you are a healthcare worker or are in a group that is at risk and you are pregnant, you should speak to your obstetrician or GP about getting the COVID-19 vaccine. 
 If you are breastfeeding, you can take the COVID-19 vaccine. 
 How do I know which vaccine I have been given? 
 The vaccine that we are giving you is called Comirnaty, which is produced by Pfizer/BioNTech. 
 The mRNA vaccine teaches your body to make a kind of protein that can trigger an immune response if the COVID-19 virus is ever introduced to your body. 
 Then your body creates an antibody that will help fight infection if COVID-19 virus enters your body. 
 Is the vaccine safe? 
 An HSE only when it meets the essential safety and efficacy standards. 
 The work of developing the COVID-19 vaccine is progressing at a faster pace than usual. 
 The vaccines that we are giving are safe and effective vaccines developed and authorized through all the proper channels. 
 To get approval for the use of the COVID-19 vaccine, it has followed the safety international standards, COVID-19 vaccine has gone through all clinical trials and safety checks along with international standards, from which all other licensed drugs are available. 
 आम्ही तुम्हांला जी लस देत आहोत तीला Comirnaty म्हणतात, जी Pfizer/BioNTech द्वारे निर्माण केली आहे. 
 During this clinical trial, thousands of people were tested. 
 The strict standards of security, quality and effectiveness have been fully complied with, and it has been approved by the regulators and has received a license. 
 The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is the regulator for Ireland - for more information, visit www.ema.europa.eu. 
 How is the COVID-19 vaccine administered? 
 The COVID-19 vaccine is given in the form of an injection on the upper arm of your hand. 
 It takes a few minutes in this. 
 How many doses of COVID-19 vaccine do I need? 
 To get the best possible protection, two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine are necessary for you. 
 You will have to take the second dose after 28 days (four weeks). 
 What are the side effects of the vaccine? 
 All other drugs can have side effects in terms of vaccines. 
 In this, a majority of people are asymptomatic and it is for a short period of time. 
 10 ते अधिक लोक खालील उपसर्ग अनुभव करू शकतात: 
 Fatigue 
 Injection dilayla thikani hatavar komalta kinva suj 
 3. डोकेदुखी 
 Pain in muscles 
 Sandhedukhi 
 Restlessness in the body 
 Fever (38 degrees Celsius or higher) 
 After vaccination, among 1,000 people, more than 1 person given the vaccine may experience itching, swelling in the lymph nodes or insomnia. 
 Bells Palsy is a rare side effect that has been observed in more than 10,000 people out of 1. 
 Serious side effects of the vaccine such as allergic reactions are extremely rare, seen in at least one in a million people for all vaccines. 
 Your vaccine taker is trained to treat rare severe allergic reactions. 
 ज्या लोकांनी फेशियल फिलर केलं आहे त्यांच्या चेहर्‍यावर कधी कधी सूज येऊ शकते. 
 This is found in more than 1 out of 10,000 people. 
 The COVID-19 vaccine has passed the clinical trial and safety test, from which all the licensed vaccines are going. 
 However, this vaccine is new and information about long-term side effects is limited. 
 Like Ireland, as many people as possible around the world will be given this vaccine, information about such adverse effects will also be available. 
 The information will be updated regularly on our website and if necessary, we will update the information leaflets given to people about the first or second dose of the vaccine. 
 After vaccination fever 
 After vaccination, fever is a very common symptom. 
 In general, the symptoms of fever occur within two days (48 hours) of taking this drug and the fever subsides in the next two days. 
 After the second dose of the vaccine, you are more likely to get a fever. 
 If you feel unwell, take paracetamol or ibuprofen as instructed in the box or leaflet. 
 If you are concerned, consult a doctor. 
 असे कुणी लोक आहेत ज्यांनी कोविड-१९ ची लस घेऊ नये? 
 तुम्ही कोविड-१९ ची लस घेतली नाही तर मग तुम्हाला कोविड-१९ होऊ शकतो. 
 If you had a severe allergic reaction to any component of the vaccine (including polyethylene glycol) 
 For a list of ingredients, see the 'Manufacturer's Patient Information Leaflet'. 
 You have had a severe allergic reaction to the first dose of the vaccine. 
 If you have had any vaccine, injection or have had a serious allergic reaction due to the police orbet 80, then talk to the doctors before getting the COVID-19 vaccine. 
 Most people can get vaccinated safely. 
 The person who will give you the vaccine will be ready to answer your questions at the time of your appointment. 
 After-care advice लसीकरणानंतर देखभाल संबधित सल्ला ( आफ्टर-केयर एडवाइस) आपल्याला परिपत्रकाच्या मागे मिळेल. 
 On the day of vaccination, you will also be given a vaccine record card, in which the name and batch number of the vaccine given will be mentioned. 
 How long does it take for the vaccine to work? 
 After taking two doses of COVID-19 vaccine, most people will develop immunity. 
 Meaning, they are safe from COVID-19. 
 To work on this, after taking the second dose, it takes 7 days. 
 Even after taking the vaccine, the possibility of being infected with COVID-19 is very low. 
 आपण जर लस सामायिक करत असाल, तर तिला मोठ्या व्यावसायिक उत्पादनात आवश्यक असलेल्या गोष्टींपेक्षा काही गोष्टी फरक करत नाही. 
 Across the world, every year, 20 to 30 crore people are saved due to the vaccine and many people stay away from diseases throughout their lives. 
 Till now, lakhs of people have been vaccinated against COVID-19 worldwide. 
 The fact that the risk of getting Covid-19 from the Covid-19 vaccine is very low is proven. 
 Vaccines are extremely effective in preventing death and serious illness due to COVID-19. 
 If your immunity is weak and there is no additional risk in taking the vaccine, then it is possible that this vaccine will not be beneficial for you. 
 If I get the vaccine, it means that I will not spread COVID-19 to others. 
 We do not know yet whether taking the vaccine does not spread the COVID-19 virus to others. 
 It is important for this that we all follow public health advice to prevent the spread of all viruses. 
 In special circumstances, you still need this thing: 
 Follow social distancing guidelines (Maintain at least a two-meter distance where possible). 
 Cover your face. 
 Wash your hands regularly. 
 I am grateful to the people who have kept themselves and others safe. 
 How long does immunity last due to vaccine? 
 We still don't know how long the immunity will last. 
 Clinical trial of this vaccine has started to gather information about it. 
 जागतिक स्तरावर डोलावणूक आणि नागरिकांच्या रक्षणेसाठी विविध धोरणांची अभियां चालवण्यात येत आहेत. 
 For more information, read the 'Manufacturers Patient Information Leaflet'. 
 You will be given a certificate after getting vaccinated, and you can also get it at www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinePIL. 
 You can also talk to any health care professional about this, such as your doctor or pharmacist or health care team. 
 For more information about COVID-19 vaccination, visit www.hse.ie/covid19vaccinematerials, where other formats and translations are also available. 
 Where can I file a complaint about side effects? 
 Like every vaccination, you can also register your complaint about the side effects of this vaccine with the Health Product Regulatory Authority (HPRA). 
 HPRA is the regulatory authority in Ireland for medicines, medical devices and other health products. 
 HPRA on the inspection of the safety of medicines 
 A system is operated through which health workers or public members can report any suspected adverse effects of medicines and vaccines, which is happening in Ireland. 
 HPRA is committed to encouraging concerns about adverse reactions related to COVID-19 vaccines, ensuring constant vigilance for their safe and effective use. 
 Please visit www.hpra.ie/report to report any suspected adverse reactions to the COVID-19 vaccine. 
 You can also complain to your doctor or any member of your family about this. 
 It is very important to have as much information as possible in this regard, and wherever possible, the mention of the batch number of the vaccine should be made. 
 HPRA cannot give individual medical advice in a personal case. 
 People are required to contact their business health service provider (your doctor or pharmacist) for treatment. 
 आपल्या Comirnaty (Pfizer/ BioNTech) कोविड-१९ लसीकरणानंतर 
 Thanks for keeping yourself and others safe till vaccination. 
 After your vaccination is done, we want you to read this document carefully because it will help you understand how the results will be in the coming days and where you will get more information about this. 
 आपल्याला आज जी पण माहिती दिली गेली ती वाचावी. 
 We are also giving you records of today's vaccination. 
 Please keep the record card safe. 
 पुढील काही दिवसात काय होऊ शकते? 
 लस घेतलेल्या पैकी काही लोकांना खालील उपसर्ग जाणवेल: 
 Injection देण्याच्या वेळेला रक्तात दाब येणे. 
 Pain in the muscles 
 Dysentery 
 Fever (तपमान 38 डिग्री सेल्सियस कििंवा त्याहून अधिक) 
 Just like in the case of each vaccination, similarly, if there are any side effects, you can register your complaint with the Health Product Regulatory Authority (HPRA). 
 Please report any adverse effects due to COVID-19 vaccination on www.hpra.ie/report. 
 What should I do if I have a fever or I start feeling sick? 
 If you get it, you can take paracetamol or ibuprofen. 
 If you have a fever for more than 48 hours, you can contact a doctor. 
 जर तुम्ही गर्भधारणा केली असेल आइबुप्रोफेन घेऊ नये 
 Is it necessary to do something before taking the second dose of vaccination? 
 If you have taken the second or last dose of the vaccine, then give information about the changes that have already taken place in your health to the vaccination team. 
 Keep the report card with you when you go for the second dose of the vaccine. 
 The next 28 days (4 weeks) will be like this. 
 शॉपिंग करण्यासाठी नेमकं गावात जाऊ शकतात लोक 
 COVID-19 लस तुमची COVID-19 च्या गंभीर परिणामांपासून रक्षा करेल. 
 The vaccine will boost your immune system to protect you from the disease. 
 In comparison to the spread of COVID-19, vaccination is more secure for our immunity. 
 We are still learning. 
 The effect of the second dose of the vaccine is observed after 7 days. 
 Even after taking the vaccine, there is a slight chance that you will get infected with COVID-19. 
 Still, we don't know whether the vaccine is stopped, then the virus can spread among other persons through us or not, so we have to follow public health advice. 
 Social distancing (Maintain a distance of 2 meters from others) 
 Wear a mask. 
 Wash hands regularly 
 Do you have any questions? 
 If you are unsure about a certain issue, or have any questions regarding the COVID-19 vaccine, please let us know, or 
 Side effects 
 Report any side effects of HPRA at www.hpra.ie/report. 
 Your personal information 
 The HSE will process your personal information to record all the necessary information required for the safe operation and administration of vaccines and for testing and managing vaccines. 
 All information by HSE will be processed according to general rules and especially according to General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which was applicable in 2018. 
 The process of your information is legal. 
 These are only specifically designed for vaccination management. 
 Data minimization principle is applied, which means only that information will be collected which is necessary for identification, to fix a meeting, to note down your vaccination and to inspect its results. 
 The GDPR gives you rights over the processing of your personal information. 
 You can request information and registration related to your personal data. (Which is generally recognized as data subject access request) 
 This allows you to receive a copy of your personal data we hold and to check that we are lawfully processing it. 
 You can request us to rectify the information we have. 
 It helps us correct the misinformation or misinterpretation that you may have about us. 
 You can request us to delete your personal information. 
 We are capable of telling you about removing your personal data from us, as there is no legitimate reason for us to process it. 
 You also have the right to delete your private information or ask us to delete it, where you have exercised your right to object to processing. 
 4. आपल्या वैयक्तिक डेटाच्या प्रक्रियेविरुद्ध आपत्ती. 
 Along with that, health machinery and fever clinics for ILI and SARI will also be kept in mind. 
 This includes family, people in the vicinity, place of work and other reasons for contact. 
 The positivity rate should be less than 5 per cent of the total tests. 
 The number of patients, their contact tracing, digital mapping will be done on the basis of which containment zones will be decided. 
 While isolating a person at home, do they follow the center's guidelines, this should be considered. 
 This needs to be thoroughly investigated and along with that, complete genome sequencing also needs to be done. 
 The government has announced that it will take a decision on this. 
 Therefore, the district administration should focus on implementing strict and effective measures in accordance with the guidelines of the Central Health Account. 
 Then, they take a cane to beat the mule into shape. 
 असा प्रश्न पडावा. 
 Infectious diseases have a history of their own, and often the second wave has a faster transmission rate and more people get sick. 
 तर त्यात काही ग्राफिक्सच्या माध्यमातून आपण जाणून घेऊयात. 
 After that, the number of patients started decreasing. 
 The daily number of patients has increased in the last three months, which is evident. 
 This is the highest increase in a day in Maharashtra so far. 
 Now, the number of patients is increasing in cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, after the second wave. 
 On 25th February, this number reached 6,740. 
 Many people have gone to their villages for voting, and the number of people travelling has also increased. 
 Also, people have become complacent after the first wave of COVID and are showing negligence after the first wave, which is why the numbers are increasing again. 
 But 60% of the Covid patients are in the country. 
 Out of these, 1 lakh 66 thousand 353 patients are from Maharashtra. 
 The 23 lakh 29 thousand 464 cases reported from Maharashtra account for nearly 20% of the total caseload. 
 Kerala is at a new position in this list. (19 March figures) 
 On 24th December 2020, 1 lakh 28 thousand 820 tests were conducted in the state. 
 त्यामुळे तात्काळ याबाबत त्यांची तत्परता वाढली आहे. 
 त्यामुळे उपचारांचं प्रभावी पडण्यासाठी रुग्णांचा आरोग्य स्थिती प्रामाणिक असल्याची निश्चिती असल्याने उपचार देण्यात येत आहे. 
 In September, the number of deaths had dropped below four digits for a few days. 
 Till 18th March, 38,04,142 people in Maharashtra have been given the vaccine dose. 
 Mutation म्हणजे विषाणूंमध्ये झालेलं उत्परिवर्तन आहे. 
 However, what specific changes are taking place, can be understood from the characteristics of that muscle. 
 In January, a group of genomic scientists in India said, 'There are 14 million cases in India, but only 6400 genomes have been saved.' 
 The police have also taken action against 20 lakh people in Mumbai who are not wearing masks. 
 10th आणि 12th च्या विद्यार्थ्यांना वगळण्यात आलंय. 
 Shopping Malls will be open till 10 pm. 
 Regular worship, archana/cleaning work at the respective place shall be carried out by maximum 5 persons with strict adherence to the presence of 5 persons. 
 This lockdown will be in place until midnight on March 31. 
 However, medical services, offices of the media, milk sales, vegetable sales and fruit sales will continue in this lockdown. 
 10th आणि 12th च्या वर्गही बंद करण्यात आलेत. 
 50 people can attend domestic wedding ceremony. 
 However, some strict restrictions have been imposed in the district to break the corona infection. 
 No mask, no entry असे निर्णय घेण्यात आले आहेत. 
 The customer will be provided sealed food in the room. 
 The night curfew is in effect from 11 pm to 5 am. 
 But the limit of the number of people who can attend the wedding ceremony and the last rites will also be applicable there. 
 The committee has issued a certificate of recognition. 
 त्यामुळे परीक्षा देतानाची मार्गदर्शक तत्त्वंही बदलली आहेत. 
 If you have your own car, it is best. 
 Avoid eating and drinking while going out of the center. 
 टीकाकरणाच्या लसी तयार होण्याऐवजी ती जास्त लोकांच्या बाजूला येऊन गेल्या आहेत. 
 Follow social distancing. 
 Sit on my lap. 
 The commission has made it mandatory to wear gloves. 
 Because she cares about everyone like you. 
 During that period, avoid eating and drinking from the same utensil and avoid consuming water. 
 Prepare a kind of bubble wrap at home itself. 
 Then you can merge the call. 
 But, after the exams are over, go home directly. 
 एवढी मोठी परीक्षा झाल्यानंतर मन सैल सुटण्याची ग्वाही देत असतं. 
 The number of patients in Maharashtra is increasing rapidly. 
 विद्यार्थ्यांनी सहकार्य केलं तर प्रशासनव्यवस्थेवरही त्याचा ताण येणार नाही. 
 That is why supervisors and representatives of the administration should cooperate with each other from time to time. 
 The information was shared by them through Twitter. 
 Everyone who has come in contact with me should take care and get themselves tested. 
 They have urged to follow the rules of the sidelines of Corona. 
 But, 70 deaths have been recorded due to corona. 
 Vegetable, fruit, grocery shops will be open till 4 pm now. 
 The district administration has organized a meeting to discuss this situation. 
 On 18th March 2021, 2,913 patients were registered in the city, which means they are COVID positive patients. 
 Corona cases in Maharashtra: 14 deaths in one day due to corona 
 त्यामुळे गरिबांचे अतोनात नुकसान होते. 
 The death rate has decreased due to the increased immunity against the coronavirus among the people. 
 Even though there is an increase in the number of corona patients, the immunity of the citizens has increased, so large numbers of patients are taking home isolation treatment. 
 District administration cha mahitinausar gelya chovis tasaat jilhyat 15 hajar nagarikanchi koronachi chachani karat ahe. 
 Citizens who are violating the rules are being punished. 
 Government Medical Colleges-Hospitals, Mayos, AIIMS and Municipal Corporation's dispensaries along with private hospitals also have started vaccination in private hospitals. 
 The situation is serious and health facilities will be affected for 15-20 days, said the Chief Minister. 
 I will be speaking to the experts in the next two days. 
 Today we may have to collect or cross the number of 45 thousand patients. 
 The situation in France is delicate. 
 First and foremost, it is important to save the lives of the public. 
 लशीचे दोन्ही डोस घेतल्यानंतरसुद्धा काही जणांना संसर्ग झाला आहे. 
 Hence, I need your cooperation as well. 
 Students protested in Mumbai today against this government decision. 
 Currently, the number of COVID-19 patients is increasing in the state. 
 Over the past few days, students have come out on the streets in Pune and Nashik to demand this. 
 After that, the police entered the scene and took 15 to 20 students into custody. 
 Many students from remote and rural areas faced many obstacles in online education, and their learning may not have been completed. 
 I have convinced them. 
 Exams will be held. 
 But between May 22 and June 10, the 12th practical examination will be held. 
 After the results of these two exams are out, the third supplementary exam will also be held, said Varsha Gaikwad. 
 After that, the guidelines for these restrictions were also announced. 
 Then assurance has been given to follow these rules for the 10th and 12th board exams. 
 This year, students will be given more time to write papers. 
 “We are trying to create a stress-free environment for exams so that students can give their exams without any tension. 
 On this, Varsa Gayakwad said, 'The number of students giving board exams is more than 30 lakhs. 
 If the number of classes in that school is reduced, then the nearby schools will also be used as centers. 
 The time for writing the paper has been increased, keeping this in mind. 
 Similarly, a strict lockdown will be imposed from 8 pm on Friday night to 7 am on Monday, as announced by Minority Minister Nawab Malik. 
 गर्ज नसलेल्यांना औषध देणार नाही. 
 If a lockdown is imposed, the number of hospital beds may decrease. 
 During the last lockdown, the Prime Minister suddenly imposed a lockdown and laborers were stuck. 
 The administration has decided to impose more strict restrictions on the side land. 
 Along with this, he also spoke with many leaders. 
 This lack of discipline can be dangerous for oneself and others. 
 Lockdown has been imposed in other places as well in a similar manner. 
 If citizens do not follow the rules of corona themselves, then a decision will be taken in two days regarding this, the Chief Minister Thackeray also said. 
 If we or any of our family members contract COVID-19, will the government take responsibility? 
 मग अपवादात्मक परिस्थिती असताना शिक्षण विभागाने याचा विचार का केला नाही? 
 Why should we put our life at risk just for us? 
 The students appearing for the exam, while speaking with BBC Marathi, have presented all the above questions. 
 The board exams of 10th and 12th standard will be controversial, this much was mentioned. 
 Exams are scheduled in April and May and some students will get a chance to give exams again in June. 
 The state is under curfew and complete lockdown is imposed on Saturday and Sunday. 
 Due to this, it seems that Uddhav Thackeray government board exams will be conducted. 
 The government's new guidelines are not clear about this. 
 Are hand gloves necessary? 
 The examination center will be in the school or junior college where the candidate has studied. 
 If exams are not held in April-May, then the work of checking the answer sheets of lakhs of students will be kept. 
 Students have also protested with placards for this demand. 
 Due to this, students are worried and confused. 
 We also met Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. 
 Looking at the increasing cases of corona in the state, we expected the government to change the decision of the exam. 
 The availability of beds is becoming less. 
 आमच्या निकालावर आणि पुढील प्रवेशांवर याचा परिणाम होणार नाही. 
 Even the youth are now getting infected with the corona. 
 The education department has not made available various options? 
 We need to score 55% to get admission in medical colleges. 
 हे आपले लक्ष्य नसल्याने ते या परीक्षेत उत्तीर्ण झाल्याचे निर्णय त्यांनी घ्यायला नकार दिला. 
 Similarly, taking the exam of lakhs of children in such a controversial situation will be a big challenge. 
 The board exams of class X and XII are being postponed. 
. The online education scenario in rural areas is extremely grim. 
 The subject is not taught/understood and the exam is to be written. 
 But, we cannot postpone examinations even in such a controversial situation. 
 The request to conduct exams as per the schedule and decisions made will not be entertained. 
 Can other options of the exams be considered? 
 But quality is also important for you. 
 But students will follow all the rules completely and responsibly. 
 This time, the BBS Marathi had an interview with the School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad a few days before 31 March 2021. 
 Or bhavishyat lockdown jahir jhalyas vidyarthi jun mahinyat pariksha deu shakatat.' 
 Hence, taking the exam is also necessary. 
 After thinking about this, Varsha Gaikwad said, 'I cannot give an answer to this. 
 गावातल्या मुलांचं परीक्षा देताना इंटरनेट कनेक्शन गेलं तर काय करणार? 
 Several messes have stopped preparing tiffin boxes at 6 o'clock. 
 Some students are demanding that this exam be postponed, and some students are ready to appear for the exam on the scheduled date. 
 Some students preparing for competitive exams in Pune have also contracted corona. 
 परिक्षारत्न यंदाचा वर्गवार विभागीय विभाजन करून करण्यात आला आहे. 
 Children are also scared seeing such fear. 
 If students go to exams, infection will increase. 
 Due to restrictions, the tiffin is not available on time, so it is necessary to get a parcel from the hotel. 
 Many students do not have another option, so the shameless students stay in Pune. 
 In this, the students are seen taking medicines and practicing without conducting any tests. 
 The food has become expensive in Pune. 
 Many children have symptoms of corona. 
 The students will not have to take the examination, if the examination comes positive, they will have to be quarantined. 
 We also participated in the struggle, but the situation was different at that time. 
 So if the examination is done, the students will automatically go home and the infection will be reduced, they also say. 
 यासंदर्भातील एक पत्र त्यांनी प्रसिद्ध केलं. 
 You are taking pain killer tablets from your doctor friends. 
 त्यामुळे खरंतर केसेस वाढल्या असाव्यात. 
 One infected student can spread the infection to many. 
 But the first and second waves of corona, the main difference is the 'vaccine'. 
 Because of this, there is a demand to give vaccines to everyone in Maharashtra who are above 25 years of age, in view of the 60 percent active cases in the country. 
 The Chief Minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding that the age limit for vaccination be removed and every person above 25 years of age be given a vaccine. 
 The biggest organization of doctors in the country, 'Indian Medical Association' (IMA), has written a letter to the Prime Minister to bring this age limit to 18 years. 
 त्यामुळे 25 वर्षांवरील सर्वांना कोव्हिड प्रतिबंधात्मक लस द्यावी.' 
 They have demanded more than two crore doses from the center for this. 
 Later, the central government had announced to give vaccine to this age group from 1 April. 
 IMA has written a letter to the Prime Minister demanding that everyone above 18 years of age should be vaccinated. 
 As a result, the individual's resistant capacity increases, the possibility of developing hard immunity in society is created and the severity of the disease is also reduced. IMA has also informed through its letter that walk-in vaccination centers should also be set up everywhere. 
 The central government has said that the certificate of vaccination started in other progressive countries around the world should be given. 
 ज्या वयोगटाला अधिक धोका आहे त्यांनाच लस दिली जावी. 
 You see, Britain, America, France, Sweden and many other countries have not given vaccines to all citizens. 
 Even their vaccination doses are more severe than yours. 
 Research on the faster vaccine is completed worldwide. 
 त्यामुळेच व्याधी असलेल्या आणि धोका असलेल्या वर्गाला अगोदर लस दिली जाते आहे. 
 The issue of age limit came up for discussion there, and the demand was made, what role will the Prime Minister play in this? 
 We notice that the patients in the age group of 22 to 45 are the most. 
 As a result, work is being done quickly. 
 But have we given the vaccine to everyone above 45 years of age? 
 Now, if all those above 25 years of age are given the vaccine, it will cost more. 
 But this question is not only political, but the economy of Parbhani has become a barrier. 
 They have demanded an extension of two days to take a proper decision in this regard. 
 But in many cities in the state, there are protests by the business class. 
 Pune’s Vyapaar Peth's famous Laxmi Road has been blocked by shopkeepers and fruit vendors. 
 We have decided to protest against it. 
 The announcement was made separately in the evening and it was changed only at night. 
 उपराजधानी नागपूर इथंही आज आंदोलन झालं. 
 They have now requested the government to open all shops for five days a week. 
 We all businessmen assure that we will take care of the security, as mentioned in the letter, said the businessmen. 
 They will control the crowd even if there is a lot of crowd. 
 According to this, the role of the government is expected to be clear on Friday. 
 The Chief Minister said that the demands of the business class will be considered seriously, but it is still not clear how they will find a way. 
 सगळ्यांना विश्वासात घेऊन पुढे जायचं आहे. 
 In their Facebook live, they have also given a solution of Saburi. ' 
 Later, these parties had shown the government the mirror of the steps it had taken. 
 Raj Thackeray has also demanded that the shops be allowed to open for a few days in the week rather than keeping them closed for the whole day. 
 Yashomati Thakur has written a letter to the Chief Minister requesting to relax the restrictions imposed in the entire Amaravati district. 
 तशी उचलल्यावर स्थानिक विरोधही नजरेआड करता येत नाही आहे. 
 In this, three men and one woman patient died, informed Nagpur Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar. 
 This hospital was given the status of a private mini covid hospital. 
 The other corona-infected patients from the Vell Treat Hospital have been shifted to other Covid hospitals in the city, Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut has given this information. 
 5 patients were being treated in ICU this time. 
 Social workers from the vicinity of the hospital were present at this place. 
 COVID-19: भारतात एकूण रुग्णसंख्या 4.14 लाखांवर, बदल होणार कोरोनाचा रूप 
 However, Devendra Fadnavis, the leader of the opposition, has informed the district collectors that they are opposed to helping the patients and the injured. 
 I am deeply saddened by the loss of life and the grief of the relatives of the deceased. 
 58 हजार नवे कोरोनाग्रस्त रुग्ण आढळून आले. 
 या काळात फक्त अत्यावश्यक सेवा सुरू राहणार आहेत. 
 To address the concerns of citizens, the state has released a set of guidelines for commonly asked questions and their answers. 
 If the rules are not followed, the local administration can take decisions with the permission of the state government 
 or अशा नियमांप्रमाणे होम डिलिव्हरी मागवता येईल. 
 बंदरांचं तटबंदी करण्यात येणार आहे. 
 पण, हॉटेलमध्ये बसून जेवता येणार नाही. 
 In the Amaravati city, the main chowks like Rajkamal chowk, Irwin chowk, Panchvati, Jaystambh were always crowded with citizens. 
 शहरातील अत्यावश्यक सेवा वगळता सर्व दुकानं बंद आहेत. 
 Second Chowk, Kavala Naka, Mirajkar Tiki, Bus Stand Campus अशा भागात रस्ते ओस पडल्याचं चित्र आहे. 
 But, the decision to postpone it was taken in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. 
 The empathy that is alive in you today, has been seen in Maharashtra once again. 
 It was almost 2:30 at night. 
 Essential services have been excluded from this. 
 Many states in the country have done this. 
 All states are looking at each other and making decisions that the decision to take a decision according to the information given by the central government, has not been made public by any state government. 
 The Maharashtra government is making efforts to stop such people and for that night curfew is imposed. 
 The BBC has raised the question with the Delhi government for the reaction to this, but they have not received an official response. 
 These three answers are also different. 
 The government is worried about this and the government is planning something or the other, this is also visible. 
 Droplet Infection 
 In this, Tushar fixes it on one side. 
 Some extremely small waves called tushar can be seen up to a certain distance. 
 Where the air is playing, there is less chance of spreading corona and in places like restaurants, bars, gyms, where the restrictions are lifted, there is more chance of spreading corona. 
 जर लोकांनी स्वतःहून अशा ठिकाणी जाणं कमी केलं, तर सरकारवर असं करायची पाळी येणार नाही. 
 The second thing is that, people are forced to work at night and most of the time, they are just wandering around outside. 
 But, they incurred financial loss. 
 Not allowing people to go from one place to another without a solid reason is a broad policy. 
 Containment zones तयार करून लोकांचा वावर थांबवणं, हा दुसरा मार्ग असू शकतो. 
 This is not a very effective way to prevent the spread of the corona virus, but this problem is now taking a serious form and people are not taking it seriously, so the situation can worsen further, this message definitely reaches the people. 
 But reducing the crowd and controlling the spread of corona can be possible, this has been proved by scientific research. 
 The weekend lockdown and night curfew have been effective in controlling the spread of the coronavirus and the result is good. 
 A few days before, he was admitted to hospital for treatment. 
 तर पुढील काही दिवस अलगीकरणात राहावं लागणार असल्याचं त्यांनं लिहिलं आहे. 
 Sachin tweeted, 'Thank you for your good wishes and prayers. 
 Sachin Tendulkar wished the Indian teams participating in the ICC World Cup on the occasion of their tenth anniversary of victory, in a tweet. 
 Sachin was quarantined at home after the corona infection and his treatment is still going on there, he said. 
 In between, today my corona test has come positive. 
 I am taking all the treatments as per the advice of the doctors. 
 Earlier, Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his wife Rashmi Thackeray were also infected with Corona. 
 टास्क फोर्सच्या बैठकीनंतर राजेश टोपेंनी काय म्हटलं? 
 In this meeting, the discussion was held in the context of the corona situation in the state. 
 The excessive and arbitrary use of Remdesivir also needs to be stopped, the Task Force has expressed this opinion. 
 The meeting was held with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the Covid Task Force Committee, and it is possible to take the final decision after the discussion in the context of the lockdown. 
 The number of tests has exceeded 2 lakhs in the last 3 days. 
 On 7th April, 2,35,749 tests were conducted in the state, of which 1,33,344 RT-PCR tests and 1,02,405 antigen tests were included. 
 60% of the patients are in home isolation, while 40% are in institutional isolation. 
 There will be a discussion on this in this meeting. 
 Our employees' salaries and tax benefits should also be fixed.' 
 According to this, the laborers and workers living in the areas where construction work is going on are required. Only permission will be given to transport literature. 
 Hence, while implementing a complete lockdown again, the government will have to consider the working class as well. 
 There has been no discussion about changing this. 
 Similarly, long-distance buses will not be stopped, so that passengers going to the villages should not be stopped. 
 Now, the number has come down to 15-16 lakhs. 
 Similarly, a complete lockdown has been imposed on Saturday and Sunday. 
 But, if a hotel has a part as a restaurant, then it can be kept open for those staying there, entry will not be allowed for outsiders. 
 The industrial and production sector should continue, but health rules should be followed here, care should be taken. 
 If Maharashtra does not receive increased supply of vaccines within eight days, we will not send a single vehicle from the Serum Institute in Pune outside Maharashtra. 
 Maharashtra's vaccine politics has started and it is ruthless, said Saamana editorial. 
 For that, the Chief Minister has called a meeting of the Task Force tomorrow (11th April). After this meeting, a decision will be taken regarding the lockdown. 
 The sources present at this meeting have informed BBC Marathi that the state is once again considering imposing a strict lockdown. 
 या बैठकीत राज्यात लॉकडाऊन लावलं तर पुरेशी तयारी आहे का? 
 कोरोनाला रोखण्याचं मोठं आव्हान राज्य सरकारसमोर आहे. 
 However, they did not attend the meeting as they were subjected to surgical procedures. 
 Save the first life. 
 But the rapidly spreading infection and increasing patients daily, it is very important to prevent it first. 
 If we have to win this battle in such circumstances, we will have to be a little strict. 
 शेतकरी आंदोलनाला आंदोलनाची जिद्द येतोय, तर राज्य सरकार सुद्धा त्यांच्याबाबत विचार करत असली तर अन्नदाते दिवाळीपूर्वीस सुद्धा आता त्यांना त्याच्याबाबत आश्वासन देऊन द्यावे लागते. 
 Think about what help can be given to those who will have to close their shops. 
